recipes/Winter Almonds (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
canonical_url: https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/W/Winter%20Almonds%20(Deluxe)/
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
- prepared dry ingredients
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Vanilla
remove:
- ' (to the MAX line)'
replace:
- Fill to MAX=>Top off (Stir in)
tags:
- Dairy
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Seasonal
- Stevia
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Winter Almonds (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-Winter-Almonds.png" />

Ice cream based on almond butter and Amaretto as the main flavor component, with buttermilk as the main liquid.
An emulsifier is used to properly integrate the nut butter.

Winter comes with the mix-ins: firm ginger bread, almond chunks, dark chocolate shavings, and raisins.
Without the mix-ins this has about 650 kcal, 4% fat and 7% sugar, the macros below include the mix-ins.

Processed on *Lite Ice Cream*, with scrape-down and a respin.
> <img width=220 alt="After Sorbet" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋 (untested combination of 2 other  recipes)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _175ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _40g_ [Almond butter (creamy) \[Seba Garden\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#almond-milk-butter){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Skim milk powder 1:10 (SMP) \[Vita2You\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#skim-milk-powder-smp){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* lecithin

**Wet**

  - _300ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _40ml_ [Amaretto 28 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _33g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 44g allulose or dextrose
  - _15g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *not-as-good substitute:* 1.5g guar, 0.5g xanthan, and 0.5g salt

**Top off (Stir in)**

  - _≈10 drops_ Flavor drops Cookies&Cream (stevia) [Nick’s] • to taste

**Mix-ins**

  - _20g_ [Dark chocolate shavings \[Ruf\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#chocolate-shavings){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • pre-freeze if possible [101kcal, 9.5g sugar]
  - _20g_ Aachener Printen (herbal) [Lambertz] • firm ginger bread, chopped [74kcal, 7.7g sugar]
  - _15g_ Almond slivers [naturix24] • chopped [88kcal, 0.6g sugar]
  - _15g_ Sultanas (organic) [Biojoy] • chopped [45kcal, 10.1g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Microwave part of the milk and the almond butter to 70°C.
 1. Mix SMP with the emulsifier, and blend it into the hot milk.
 1. Add the rest of the ‘wet’ ingredients.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients and stir with a spoon.
 1. For better results, let the base age in the fridge (covered, lid on), for a few hours or over night. This helps flavor development and gum hydration, especially with unheated bases.
 1. Freeze for 24h with lid on, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 139.8 kcal; fat 5.5g; carbs 18.3g; sugar 10.0g; protein 5.3g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 475.4 kcal; fat 18.8g; carbs 62.3g; sugar 34.1g; protein 18.1g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 690g; 964.8 kcal; fat 38.2g; carbs 126.4g; sugar 69.2g; protein 36.7g; salt 1.5g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.47
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 15.21%
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 54.5g • 7.9%
- **Net carbs:** 82.3g • *∝ 5 servings@138g:* 16.5g • *∝ 3 servings@230g:* 27.4g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 34.1%
- **15g 'Salty Stability' is:** 11.0g Inulin • 1.8g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.9g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.6g Guar gum (E412) • 0.5g Salt • 0.2g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

add a rum-soaked raisins option

recipes/Winter Almonds (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
canonical_url: https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/W/Winter%20Almonds%20(Deluxe)/
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
- prepared dry ingredients
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Vanilla
remove:
- ' (to the MAX line)'
replace:
- Fill to MAX=>Adjust sweetness
- "Mix-ins=>Mix-ins (choose option 1\uFE0F\u20E3 or 2\uFE0F\u20E3)"
tags:
- Dairy
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Seasonal
- Stevia
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Winter Almonds (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-Winter-Almonds.png" />

Ice cream based on almond butter and Amaretto as the main flavor component, with buttermilk as the main liquid.
An emulsifier is used to properly integrate the nut butter.

Winter comes with the mix-ins: firm ginger bread, almond chunks, dark chocolate shavings, and raisins.
Without the mix-ins this has about 650 kcal, 4% fat and 7% sugar, the macros below include the mix-ins.

!!! tip "Soaked Raisins Variant (option 2️⃣)"

    Soak 40g chopped raisins in 45g rum (43 vol%) a day before you make the base,
    then drain them into the base *on a scale* (should be ~26g), and leave out the Amaretto.

    The macros improve a bit across the board, except a 11% drop in protein.

Process on *Lite Ice Cream*, with scrape-down and finally the mix-in run. Put back into freezer to get to the desired consistency.

> <img width=220 alt="After Sorbet" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋 (untested combination of 2 other  recipes)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _175ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _40g_ [Almond butter (creamy) \[Seba Garden\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#almond-milk-butter){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _33g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 44g allulose or dextrose
  - _15g_ [Skim milk powder 1:10 (SMP) \[Vita2You\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#skim-milk-powder-smp){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* lecithin

**Wet**

  - _300ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _40ml_ [Amaretto 28 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *with option 2️⃣:* replace with 26g surplus rum

**Dry**

  - _15g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *not-as-good substitute:* 1.5g guar, 0.5g xanthan, and 0.5g salt

**Adjust sweetness**

  - _≈10 drops_ Flavor drops Cookies&Cream (stevia) [Nick’s] • to taste

**Mix-ins (choose option 1️⃣ or 2️⃣)**

  - _20g_ [1️⃣ Dark chocolate shavings \[Ruf\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#chocolate-shavings){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • pre-freeze if possible [101kcal, 9.5g sugar]
  - _20g_ 1️⃣ Aachener Printen (herbal) [Lambertz] • firm ginger bread, chopped [74kcal, 7.7g sugar]
  - _15g_ 1️⃣ Almond slivers [naturix24] • chopped [88kcal, 0.6g sugar]
  - _15g_ 1️⃣ Sultanas (organic) [Biojoy] • chopped [45kcal, 10.1g sugar]
  - _40g_ 2️⃣ Sultanas (organic) [Biojoy] • chopped, soaked in rum [119kcal, 27g sugar]
  - _45g_ [2️⃣ Jamaica Rum 43 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • drain raisins and add surplus to base

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Microwave part of the milk and the almond butter to about 75°C (~2min at 800W).
 1. Mix the dry ‘prep’ ingredients, and blend or whisk them into the hot milk.
 1. Add the rest of the ‘wet’ ingredients.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients and stir with a spoon.
 1. For better results, let the base age in the fridge (covered, lid on), for a few hours or over night. This helps flavor development and gum hydration, especially with unheated bases.
 1. Freeze for 24h with lid on, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 139.8 kcal; fat 5.5g; carbs 18.3g; sugar 10.0g; protein 5.3g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 475.4 kcal; fat 18.8g; carbs 62.3g; sugar 34.1g; protein 18.1g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 690g; 964.8 kcal; fat 38.2g; carbs 126.4g; sugar 69.2g; protein 36.7g; salt 1.5g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.47
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 15.21%
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 54.5g • 7.9%
- **Net carbs:** 82.3g • *∝ 5 servings@138g:* 16.5g • *∝ 3 servings@230g:* 27.4g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 34.1%
- **15g 'Salty Stability' is:** 11.0g Inulin • 1.8g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.9g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.6g Guar gum (E412) • 0.5g Salt • 0.2g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
