recipes/Vanil-Low (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

# Vanil-Low (Deluxe)

Process on Lite Ice Cream.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" />

Use 20g *Ube Yam Root powder* instead of the vanilla
for a different taste and color, and 53 kcal/100g.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _550ml_ Almond milk (unsweetened)
  - _100g_ Cottage Cheese 4% [REWE Bio]
  - _5g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _40g_ Allulose • Sweetness = 70%; GI  ~= 0
  - _10g_ Inulin [Vit4ever] • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _5g_ Vanilla Bean Powder 
  - _3.50g_ Salt
  - _1g_ Tara gum (E417)
  - _0.50g_ Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 45.5 kcal; fat 2.5g; carbs 6.1g; sugar 0.3g; protein 2.6g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 163.8 kcal; fat 8.9g; carbs 21.9g; sugar 1.2g; protein 9.2g; salt 2.4g
- **Nutritional values total:** 715g; 325.4 kcal; fat 17.8g; carbs 43.4g; sugar 2.5g; protein 18.3g; salt 4.8g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 20.30
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 22.44% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 16.0g • 2.2%

Commit message:

make it EU compatible, with the option for Allulose

recipes/Vanil-Low (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

# Vanil-Low (Deluxe)

Process on Lite Ice Cream.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" />

Use 20g *Ube Yam Root powder* instead of the vanilla
for a different taste and color, and with 7 kcal/100g more.

If you have access to it (North America), you can use 40g Allulose as sweetener,
instead of the sugar alcohols and for 4 kcal/100g less.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _550ml_ Almond milk (unsweetened)
  - _100g_ Cottage Cheese 4% [REWE Bio]
  - _5g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _20g_ Erythritol (E968) • POD = 75%
  - _15g_ Xylitol • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _10g_ Inulin [Vit4ever] • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _5g_ Vanilla Bean Powder 
  - _3.5g_ Salt
  - _1g_ Tara gum (E417)
  - _0.5g_ Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 49.3 kcal; fat 2.5g; carbs 6.5g; sugar 0.3g; protein 2.6g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 177.4 kcal; fat 9.0g; carbs 23.5g; sugar 1.2g; protein 9.3g; salt 2.4g
- **Nutritional values total:** 710g; 349.9 kcal; fat 17.8g; carbs 46.4g; sugar 2.5g; protein 18.3g; salt 4.8g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 22.28
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 20.87% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 16.0g • 2.3%
