recipes/Salty Stability/README.md, before:

---
description: Unsweetened pre-mixed stabilizer for Ninja Creami recipes.
excluded_steps:
- .+
- Put on the lid
- Process with RE-SPIN
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Emulsifier
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Salty Stability
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-salty-stability.webp" />

> *Unsweetened* pre-mixed stabilizer for Ninja Creami recipes.

It takes handling small amounts of ingredients and their ratio to each other
out of the process of mixing your final ice cream base,
making the overall process less finicky.

To prepare the mix, take a **BIG** bowl like used for baking, measure the ingredients on a scale,
and whisk them carefully but thoroughly. A ball whisk works best.
When done, store the powder in an air-tight container with enough volume.

<img style="float: left; margin-right: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Container with blended mix" src="Salty-Stabilizer_2025-07-14.jpg" class="zoomable" />

> **3 Ingredient Replacement**<br />In a pinch, you can replace one 15g dose of the mix by 1.5g guar, 0.5g xanthan, and 0.5g salt — scale other amounts accordingly.
> Do not expect the exact same results as from the full blend.

Adding bulk to the thickeners prevents clumping when blending them into your base.
Drizzle the mix into the vortex of a running blender,
or drop it into your mixing container and quickly integrate it with an immersion blender on full speed.
Before that, combine this mix with any granulated sweetener or other dry / powdery ingredients you have.

Use 15g of the mix for a Creami Deluxe tub (24oz, yields 10),
and 10g for the regular size (16oz, yields 15).

The salt is added for convenience with final recipes,
and for a FPDF boost. Inulin bulks up the mix to be compatible with normal kitchen scales.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Dry**

  - _110g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _18g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _9g_ [Carboxymethyl Cellulose (CMC / E466) \[GoodBake\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _6g_ [Guar gum (E412)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#guar-gum-e412){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _5g_ Salt
  - _2g_ [Xanthan gum (E415, XG)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xanthan-gum-xg-e415){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1tsp ≈ 2.8g

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Store in an air-tight container with enough volume.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 267.5 kcal; fat 3.6g; carbs 88.4g; sugar 5.9g; protein 0.3g; salt 3.5g; fpdf 0.06g
- **Nutritional values per dose:** 15g; 40.1 kcal; fat 0.5g; carbs 13.3g; sugar 0.9g; protein 0.0g; salt 0.5g; fpdf 0.06g
- **Nutritional values total:** 150g; 401.2 kcal; fat 5.4g; carbs 132.7g; sugar 8.8g; protein 0.5g; salt 5.3g; fpdf 0.06g
- **FPDF:** 0.26
- **FPDF (w/o salt):** 0.06
- **Servings (Deluxe):** 10.00
- **Net carbs:** 34.8g • *∝ 10 servings@15g:* 3.5g

Commit message:

heat the liquid for better results

recipes/Salty Stability/README.md, after:

---
description: Unsweetened pre-mixed stabilizer for Ninja Creami recipes.
excluded_steps:
- .+
- Put on the lid
- Process with RE-SPIN
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Emulsifier
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Salty Stability
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-salty-stability.webp" />

> *Unsweetened* pre-mixed stabilizer for Ninja Creami recipes.

It takes handling small amounts of ingredients and their ratio to each other
out of the process of mixing your final ice cream base,
making the overall process less finicky.

To prepare the mix, take a **BIG** bowl like used for baking, measure the ingredients on a scale,
and whisk them carefully but thoroughly. A ball whisk works best.
When done, store the powder in an air-tight container with enough volume.

<img style="float: left; margin-right: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Container with blended mix" src="Salty-Stabilizer_2025-07-14.jpg" class="zoomable" />

> **3 Ingredient Replacement**<br />In a pinch, you can replace one 15g dose of the mix by 1.5g guar, 0.5g xanthan, and 0.5g salt — scale other amounts accordingly.
> Do not expect the exact same results as from the full blend.

Adding bulk to the thickeners prevents clumping when blending them into your base.
Drizzle the mix into the vortex of a running blender,
or drop it into your mixing container and quickly integrate it with an immersion blender on full speed.
Before that, combine this mix with any granulated sweetener or other dry / powdery ingredients you have.

Use 15g of the mix for a Creami Deluxe tub (24oz, yields 10),
and 10g for the regular size (16oz, yields 15).

For optimal results regarding texture and ice crystal prevention, heat suitable parts of the liquids
in your recipe (e.g. the milk, at least 200ml or so) to somewhere between 50°C and 80°C, and blend the mix plus other dry
ingredients into the hot liquid. This improves hydration of gums, dissolves your sugars, and activates
the emulsifier.

The salt is added for convenience with final recipes,
and for a FPDF boost. Inulin bulks up the mix to be compatible with normal kitchen scales.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Dry**

  - _110g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _18g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _9g_ [Carboxymethyl Cellulose (CMC / E466) \[GoodBake\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _6g_ [Guar gum (E412)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#guar-gum-e412){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _5g_ Salt
  - _2g_ [Xanthan gum (E415, XG)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xanthan-gum-xg-e415){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1tsp ≈ 2.8g

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Store in an air-tight container with enough volume.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 267.5 kcal; fat 3.6g; carbs 88.4g; sugar 5.9g; protein 0.3g; salt 3.5g; fpdf 0.06g
- **Nutritional values per dose:** 15g; 40.1 kcal; fat 0.5g; carbs 13.3g; sugar 0.9g; protein 0.0g; salt 0.5g; fpdf 0.06g
- **Nutritional values total:** 150g; 401.2 kcal; fat 5.4g; carbs 132.7g; sugar 8.8g; protein 0.5g; salt 5.3g; fpdf 0.06g
- **FPDF:** 0.26
- **FPDF (w/o salt):** 0.06
- **Servings (Deluxe):** 10.00
- **Net carbs:** 34.8g • *∝ 10 servings@15g:* 3.5g
