recipes/README.md, before:

# Ice Cream & Related Recipe Collection

Click on one of the folders listed above to view a specific recipe.

You can directly download this folder with the full recipe collection using
[DownGit](https://downgit.github.io/#/home?url=https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/tree/main/recipes).

## Interact with Your Recipe Collection

Due to the uniform recipe format, you can use
[Google NotebookLM](https://notebooklm.google/) to navigate the recipe collection and interact with it.

> <img width=640 alt="Mindmap from NotebookLM" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/mindmap-NotebookLM.png" />
>
> *Interactive mindmap generated by NotebookLM*

Using the chat prompt opens powerful ways to select a recipe based on the contained food facts and recipe traits.

    list all recipes below 75kcal/100g, with just their name and energy

And the answer is this:

> Based on the nutritional information provided in the sources, here are the recipes with a nutritional value below 75 kcal per 100g/ml:
> 
> * **Vanil-Low (Deluxe)**: **59.9 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Shregg (Deluxe)**: **61.4 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Cherry Ice Cream (Deluxe)**: **67.6 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Winter Apple (Deluxe)**: **69.1 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Blueberry Buttermilk (Deluxe)**: **72.1 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Slim Banana (Deluxe)**: **72.6 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Plum Sherbet (Deluxe)**: **74.3 kcal/100g/ml**

To actually load the recipes into *NotebookLM*, you need to provide them in text format.
Use this command in a shell while you are in the `recipes` folder:

    head -9999 */README.md >all-recipes.txt

The resulting file `all-recipes.txt` can now be uploaded as a text source into your notebook.

## Ready-to-go List of Ingredients and Their Nutritional Facts

This is how the [Ice-Cream-Recipes.fods](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/blob/main/recipes/Ice-Cream-Recipes.fods)
recipe template document looks like:

> <img width=640 alt="spreadsheet-template" src="https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/blob/main/assets/spreadsheet-template.png?raw=true" />
>
> *The spreadsheet with ingredient facts and ice cream calculator formulas*

Commit message:

docs: add link to GitHub pages

recipes/README.md, after:

# Ice Cream & Related Recipe Collection

Click on one of the folders listed above to view a specific recipe.

> 💡 See [GitHub pages](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/)
>  for a website with navigation and search.

You can directly download this folder with the full recipe collection using
[DownGit](https://downgit.github.io/#/home?url=https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/tree/main/recipes).

## Interact with Your Recipe Collection

Due to the uniform recipe format, you can use
[Google NotebookLM](https://notebooklm.google/) to navigate the recipe collection and interact with it.

> <img width=640 alt="Mindmap from NotebookLM" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/mindmap-NotebookLM.png" />
>
> *Interactive mindmap generated by NotebookLM*

Using the chat prompt opens powerful ways to select a recipe based on the contained food facts and recipe traits.

    list all recipes below 75kcal/100g, with just their name and energy

And the answer is this:

> Based on the nutritional information provided in the sources, here are the recipes with a nutritional value below 75 kcal per 100g/ml:
> 
> * **Vanil-Low (Deluxe)**: **59.9 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Shregg (Deluxe)**: **61.4 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Cherry Ice Cream (Deluxe)**: **67.6 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Winter Apple (Deluxe)**: **69.1 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Blueberry Buttermilk (Deluxe)**: **72.1 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Slim Banana (Deluxe)**: **72.6 kcal/100g/ml**
> * **Plum Sherbet (Deluxe)**: **74.3 kcal/100g/ml**

To actually load the recipes into *NotebookLM*, you need to provide them in text format.
Use this command in a shell while you are in the `recipes` folder:

    head -9999 */README.md >all-recipes.txt

The resulting file `all-recipes.txt` can now be uploaded as a text source into your notebook.

## Ready-to-go List of Ingredients and Their Nutritional Facts

This is how the [Ice-Cream-Recipes.fods](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/blob/main/recipes/Ice-Cream-Recipes.fods)
recipe template document looks like:

> <img width=640 alt="spreadsheet-template" src="https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/blob/main/assets/spreadsheet-template.png?raw=true" />
>
> *The spreadsheet with ingredient facts and ice cream calculator formulas*
