recipes/Strawberry Cheesecake (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ^$
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Strawberry Cheesecake (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/strawberry-ice-cream-logo.png" />

A great combination of various tart flavors,
and a variation of my German cheesecake base, which is made with ‘Quark’ or ‘Topfen’
– think of a cross between yogurt, cottage cheese and ricotta.

> <img width=180 alt="Pre-blend Ingredients" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-20.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Spun on Lite Ice Cream, followed by a scrape-down and a mix-in run.

> <img width=331 alt="Spun Ice Cream after Mix-in" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2024-12-29_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=331 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2024-12-29_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Serve with graham crackers, shortbread, or plain cookies to stand in for the pie crust.

Rating: 😋😋🥛🍓🍓

> <img width=220 alt="Sorbet run" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-22_sorbet.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Respin" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-22_respin.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Served" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-22_served.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Made with whey / casein protein mix, processed on Sorbet + Respin. Served with chopped cashews and chopped rum-soaked sultanas.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _245g_ [Topfen / Quark 14.4% \[Berchtesgadener\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#quark-topfen){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 250g container; *US alternative:* low-fat cream cheese
  - _200g_ Strawberries
  - _125ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • use any other preferred milk (~2% fat)
  - _15g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 12g (additional) VG for a sober recipe
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5
  - _15ml_ Lemon juice

**Dry**

  - _30g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD ≈ 85%; GI < 7
  - _20g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia
  - _10g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *not-as-good substitute:* 1g guar, 0.3g xanthan, and 0.3g salt
  - _1g_ Salt

**Fill to MAX**

  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste
  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Cookies&Cream (stevia) [Nick’s] • to taste

**Mix-ins**

  - _20g_ Sultanas (organic) [Biojoy] • add coarsely chopped as a mix-in [60kcal, 13g sugar]

**Topping Options**

  - _3-4 pieces_ Graham crackers
  - _3-4 pieces_ Wafers (cream-filled)
  - _16g_ Biscoff “Lotus” cookies [Aldi] • 1pc = 7.8g; add as a topping [77kcal, 6.1g sugar]
  - _18g_ Butter cookies [Kägi Toggenburger] • 1pc = 6g; add as a topping [84kcal, 3.8g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 115.4 kcal; fat 5.8g; carbs 11.4g; sugar 3.3g; protein 6.2g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 392.4 kcal; fat 19.8g; carbs 38.7g; sugar 11.2g; protein 21.1g; salt 0.9g
- **Nutritional values total:** 676g; 780.2 kcal; fat 39.4g; carbs 76.9g; sugar 22.2g; protein 42.0g; salt 1.7g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.81
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.53% • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 39.3g • 5.8%
- **Net carbs:** 32.0g • *∝ 5 servings@135g:* 6.4g • *∝ 3 servings@225g:* 10.7g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 16.4%
- **10g 'Salty Stability' is:** 7.3g Inulin • 1.2g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.6g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.33g Salt • 0.13g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

2025-11-10: Processed on FroYo, with white chocolate shavings

recipes/Strawberry Cheesecake (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ^$
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Strawberry Cheesecake (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/strawberry-ice-cream-logo.png" />

A great combination of various tart flavors,
and a variation of my German cheesecake base, which is made with ‘Quark’ or ‘Topfen’
– think of a cross between yogurt, cottage cheese and ricotta.

> <img width=180 alt="Pre-blend Ingredients" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-20.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Spun on Lite Ice Cream, followed by a scrape-down and a mix-in run.

> <img width=331 alt="Spun Ice Cream after Mix-in" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2024-12-29_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=331 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2024-12-29_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Serve with graham crackers, shortbread, or plain cookies to stand in for the pie crust.

Rating: 😋😋🥛🍓🍓

> <img width=220 alt="Sorbet run" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-22_sorbet.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Respin" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-22_respin.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Served" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-07-22_served.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Made with whey / casein protein mix, processed on Sorbet + Respin. Served with chopped cashews and chopped rum-soaked sultanas.*

> <img width=220 alt="FroYo run" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-11-10_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After mix-in" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-11-10_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="Strawberry-Cheesecake_2025-11-10_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *2025-11-10: Processed on FroYo, scrape-down, and mix-in run with white chocolate shavings.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _245g_ [Topfen / Quark 14.4% \[Berchtesgadener\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#quark-topfen){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 250g container; *US alternative:* low-fat cream cheese
  - _200g_ Strawberries
  - _125ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • use any other preferred milk (~2% fat)
  - _15g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 12g (additional) VG for a sober recipe
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5
  - _15ml_ Lemon juice

**Dry**

  - _30g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD ≈ 85%; GI < 7
  - _20g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia
  - _10g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *not-as-good substitute:* 1g guar, 0.3g xanthan, and 0.3g salt
  - _1g_ Salt

**Fill to MAX**

  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste
  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Cookies&Cream (stevia) [Nick’s] • to taste

**Mix-ins**

  - _20g_ Sultanas (organic) [Biojoy] • add coarsely chopped as a mix-in [60kcal, 13g sugar]

**Topping Options**

  - _3-4 pieces_ Graham crackers
  - _3-4 pieces_ Wafers (cream-filled)
  - _16g_ Biscoff “Lotus” cookies [Aldi] • 1pc = 7.8g; add as a topping [77kcal, 6.1g sugar]
  - _18g_ Butter cookies [Kägi Toggenburger] • 1pc = 6g; add as a topping [84kcal, 3.8g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 115.4 kcal; fat 5.8g; carbs 11.4g; sugar 3.3g; protein 6.2g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 392.4 kcal; fat 19.8g; carbs 38.7g; sugar 11.2g; protein 21.1g; salt 0.9g
- **Nutritional values total:** 676g; 780.2 kcal; fat 39.4g; carbs 76.9g; sugar 22.2g; protein 42.0g; salt 1.7g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.81
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.53% • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 39.3g • 5.8%
- **Net carbs:** 32.0g • *∝ 5 servings@135g:* 6.4g • *∝ 3 servings@225g:* 10.7g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 16.4%
- **10g 'Salty Stability' is:** 7.3g Inulin • 1.2g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.6g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.33g Salt • 0.13g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
