recipes/Avocado pure (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- the prepared dry ingredients
excluded_tags:
- Cooked Base
- Vanilla
tags:
- Allulose
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Xylitol
---
# Avocado pure (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-avocado-pure.png" />

Made simply with ripe avocados, water, and avocado oil, it’s a dairy-free scoop of silky goodness, rich in healthy fats.

> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**

Process on Lite Ice Cream.

> <img width=220 alt="After Sorbet" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🥑 (untested)

> 💡 **Alcohol Replacement**<br />
> If you don't want alcohol in your ice cream, or prepare it for kids,
> replace the small amount of alcohol with vegetable glycerin.
> For 10g booze (40 vol%) use 8g VG instead.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _20ml_ Avocado oil (extra virgin) [Hunter & Gather]
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Wet**

  - _350g_ Avocado pulp (fresh) • ~73% water
  - _225ml_ Water (cold)
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _50g_ [Allulose](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#allulose){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 38g SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)
  - _2.5g_ [Gum arabic (Acacia, E414)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#acacia-gum-gum-arabic-e414){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2.20g_ Salt
  - _0.80g_ [Guar gum (E412)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#guar-gum-e412){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _1.5g_ Matcha green tea powder (organic) [Mandoi] • *optional*, for color; ½ tsp = 1g

# DIRECTIONS

 1. First, dissolve the GMS in the avocado oil — you might need to heat it up a bit for that (flash 10 secs in the microwave).
 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 125.5 kcal; fat 10.4g; carbs 13.0g; sugar 0.4g; protein 1.1g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 426.8 kcal; fat 35.4g; carbs 44.3g; sugar 1.2g; protein 3.8g; salt 1.1g
- **Nutritional values total:** 679g; 852.3 kcal; fat 70.8g; carbs 88.4g; sugar 2.5g; protein 7.5g; salt 2.3g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.40
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 3.54% • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 0.0g • 0.0%
- **Net carbs:** 80.9g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 16.2g • *∝ 3 servings@226g:* 27g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 38%

Commit message:

blend in the emulsifier, add the oil last

recipes/Avocado pure (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- the prepared dry ingredients
- stir with a spoon
excluded_tags:
- Cooked Base
- Vanilla
tags:
- Allulose
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Xylitol
---
# Avocado pure (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-avocado-pure.png" />

Made simply with ripe avocados, water, and avocado oil, it’s a dairy-free scoop of silky goodness, rich in healthy fats.

> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**

Process on Lite Ice Cream.

> <img width=220 alt="After Sorbet" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🥑 (untested)

> 💡 **Alcohol Replacement**<br />
> If you don't want alcohol in your ice cream, or prepare it for kids,
> replace the small amount of alcohol with vegetable glycerin.
> For 10g booze (40 vol%) use 8g VG instead.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _350g_ Avocado pulp (fresh) • ~73% water
  - _225ml_ Water (cold)
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _50g_ [Allulose](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#allulose){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 38g SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)
  - _2.5g_ [Gum arabic (Acacia, E414)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#acacia-gum-gum-arabic-e414){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2.20g_ Salt
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* soy or sunflower lecithin
  - _1.5g_ Matcha green tea powder (organic) [Mandoi] • *optional*, for color; ½ tsp = 1g
  - _0.80g_ [Guar gum (E412)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#guar-gum-e412){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Fill to MAX**

  - _20ml_ Avocado oil (extra virgin) [Hunter & Gather]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Then slowly blend in the oil in small amounts (drip into the vortex).
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 125.5 kcal; fat 10.4g; carbs 13.0g; sugar 0.4g; protein 1.1g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 426.8 kcal; fat 35.4g; carbs 44.3g; sugar 1.2g; protein 3.8g; salt 1.1g
- **Nutritional values total:** 679g; 852.3 kcal; fat 70.8g; carbs 88.4g; sugar 2.5g; protein 7.5g; salt 2.3g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.40
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 3.54% • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 0.0g • 0.0%
- **Net carbs:** 80.9g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 16.2g • *∝ 3 servings@226g:* 27g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 38%
