recipes/Butterscotch (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
- the prepared dry ingredients
- and mix dry ingredients
- an immersion blender on full speed
- blender run until
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Butterscotch (Deluxe)

Spin on “Sorbet”, scrape down, and re-mix.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🧈🍬 (untested)

> Inspired by [u/markhalliday8](https://www.reddit.com/r/icecreamery/comments/1mdzyfp/the_ultimate_butterscotch_gelato_recipe/)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _50g_ [Trehalose \[SaporePuro\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#trehalose-e965){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 45%; GI = 38
  - _40g_ Butter (unsalted)
  - _20ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _10g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _6.70g_ Molasses [Grafschafter Goldsaft] • Sweetness = 66%
  - _0.30g_ Salt • 8 quick shakes (with my shaker)

**Wet**

  - _350ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _50g_ Butter (unsalted)
  - _10g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _25g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _25g_ [Skim milk powder 1:10 (SMP) \[Vita2You\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#skim-milk-powder-smp){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • unsweetened “ICSv2”
  - _4g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]

**Fill to MAX**

  - _74ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _≈1 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Brown the butter, whisk in the sugars, milk, molasses, and salt.
 1. Add and melt / dissolve the other ‘wet’ ingredients on low heat.
 1. Mix the ‘dry’ ingredients in a bowl and whisk them into the hot liquid.
 1. Let it cool down a bit and transfer into an empty Creami tub.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Before freezing, let the base rest and fully cool down in the fridge. Stir a last time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 176.5 kcal; fat 12.0g; carbs 18.4g; sugar 9.4g; protein 3.4g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 600.0 kcal; fat 40.9g; carbs 62.6g; sugar 31.8g; protein 11.4g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 680g; 1200.0 kcal; fat 81.7g; carbs 125.2g; sugar 63.7g; protein 22.8g; salt 1.5g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.49
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 7.60%
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 41.3g • 6.1%
- **Net carbs:** 74.1g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 14.8g • *∝ 3 servings@227g:* 24.7g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 24.7%
- **15g 'Salty Stability' is:** 11.0g Inulin • 1.8g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.9g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.6g Guar gum (E412) • 0.5g Salt • 0.2g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

add topping option; more cooking process details

recipes/Butterscotch (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
- the prepared dry ingredients
- and mix dry ingredients
- an immersion blender on full speed
- blender run until
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Cooked Base
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Butterscotch (Deluxe)

🧈🧈 Butterscotch sauce in a vanilla gelato base infused with more butter.

You can use the prepared butterscotch as a swirl, mix-in, or topping with other (vanilla) bases.
That, and heating it to 150°C, is the reason that some of the ingredients are duplicated.

Spin on “Sorbet”, scrape down, and re-mix.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🧈🍬 (untested)

> Inspired by [u/markhalliday8](https://www.reddit.com/r/icecreamery/comments/1mdzyfp/the_ultimate_butterscotch_gelato_recipe/)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _50g_ [Trehalose \[SaporePuro\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#trehalose-e965){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 45%; GI = 38
  - _40g_ Butter (unsalted)
  - _20ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _10g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _6.70g_ Molasses [Grafschafter Goldsaft] • Sweetness = 66%
  - _0.30g_ Salt • 8 quick shakes (with my shaker)

**Wet**

  - _350ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _50g_ Butter (unsalted)
  - _10g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _25g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _25g_ [Skim milk powder 1:10 (SMP) \[Vita2You\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#skim-milk-powder-smp){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • unsweetened “ICSv2”
  - _4g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]

**Fill to MAX**

  - _74ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _≈1 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

**Topping Options**

  - _15g_ Candied pecans or walnuts

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Brown the butter, whisk in the sugars, milk, molasses, and salt.
 1. For a firm texture, heat to around 150°C (300°F).
 1. Add and melt the other ‘wet’ ingredients on low heat.
 1. Mix the ‘dry’ ingredients in a bowl and whisk them into the hot liquid.
 1. Let it cool down a bit and transfer into an empty Creami tub.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Before freezing, let the base rest and fully cool down in the fridge. Stir a last time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 176.5 kcal; fat 12.0g; carbs 18.4g; sugar 9.4g; protein 3.4g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 600.0 kcal; fat 40.9g; carbs 62.6g; sugar 31.8g; protein 11.4g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 680g; 1200.0 kcal; fat 81.7g; carbs 125.2g; sugar 63.7g; protein 22.8g; salt 1.5g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.49
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 7.60%
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 41.3g • 6.1%
- **Net carbs:** 74.1g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 14.8g • *∝ 3 servings@227g:* 24.7g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 24.7%
- **15g 'Salty Stability' is:** 11.0g Inulin • 1.8g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.9g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.6g Guar gum (E412) • 0.5g Salt • 0.2g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
