recipes/Blueberry Buttermilk (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Favorite
- Fruit
- Hi-Protein
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Blueberry Buttermilk (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="blueberry-ice-cream-logo.png" />

The buttermilk gives this a tangy and fresh profile, refreeze after processing for best texture and consistency.

Process on *Frozen Yogurt*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that.Then a scrape-down and a respin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="blueberry_2025-05-28_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="blueberry_2025-05-28_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> Rating: 😋😋😋😋😋

The variant made with strawberries, processed the same but with only a final Mix-In, since it was a bit softer.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="strawberry_2025-05-28_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="strawberry_2025-05-28_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> Rating: 😋😋😋😋😋

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _425ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _125g_ Blueberries (frozen)
  - _25g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _30g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _30g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _15g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia

**Fill to MAX**

  - _45ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _≈5 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 73.7 kcal; fat 1.3g; carbs 14.4g; sugar 4.3g; protein 4.2g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 265.5 kcal; fat 4.8g; carbs 51.9g; sugar 15.4g; protein 15.1g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 530.9 kcal; fat 9.7g; carbs 103.9g; sugar 30.8g; protein 30.1g; salt 1.4g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.79
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 22.70% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 52.1g • 7.2%
- **Net carbs:** 39.1g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.8g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 13g
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 13.8g Erythritol (E968) • 13.8g Inulin • 1.4g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.48g Guar gum (E412) • 0.48g Salt • 0.14g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

show batch made with soy protein isolate

recipes/Blueberry Buttermilk (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Favorite
- Fruit
- Hi-Protein
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Blueberry Buttermilk (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="blueberry-ice-cream-logo.png" />

The buttermilk gives this a tangy and fresh profile, refreeze after processing for best texture and consistency.

Process on *Frozen Yogurt*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that.Then a scrape-down and a respin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="blueberry_2025-05-28_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="blueberry_2025-05-28_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> Rating: 😋😋😋😋😋

The variant made with strawberries, processed the same but with only a final Mix-In, since it was a bit softer.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="strawberry_2025-05-28_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="strawberry_2025-05-28_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> Rating: 😋😋😋😋😋

> <img width=220 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="BBBM_2025-07-11_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="BBBM_2025-07-11_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="BBBM_2025-07-11_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> 2025-07-11: Made with soy protein isolate. Spun on Sorbet, followed by a scrape-down and respin. Soft-serve consistency.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _425ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _125g_ Blueberries (frozen)
  - _25g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _30g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _30g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _15g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia

**Fill to MAX**

  - _45ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _≈5 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 73.7 kcal; fat 1.3g; carbs 14.4g; sugar 4.3g; protein 4.2g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 265.5 kcal; fat 4.8g; carbs 51.9g; sugar 15.4g; protein 15.1g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 530.9 kcal; fat 9.7g; carbs 103.9g; sugar 30.8g; protein 30.1g; salt 1.4g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.79
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 22.70% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 52.1g • 7.2%
- **Net carbs:** 39.1g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.8g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 13g
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 13.8g Erythritol (E968) • 13.8g Inulin • 1.4g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.48g Guar gum (E412) • 0.48g Salt • 0.14g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
