recipes/Forget-Me-Nut Swirl/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- add the prepared dry ingredients
- put on the lid
- process with
excluded_tags:
- Scoopable
- Vanilla
tags:
- Draft
- Erythritol
- Low-Sugar
- Stevia
---
# Forget-Me-Nut Swirl
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-forget-me-nut.png" />

A scandalously smooth frozen memento of caramel nostalgia and unapologetically nutty, impossible to forget once tasted.

> <img width=360 alt="Ingredients" src="forget-me-nut-ingredients.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Combine with your favorite vanilla or chocolate base.

> <img width=220 alt="Chocolate ice cream after Sorbet run" src="forget-me-nut-choco_2025-06-28_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Ice cream with caramel/peanut swirl" src="forget-me-nut-choco_2025-06-28_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Spun on Sorbet, swirl poured on top and folded in with a chopstick.*

Rating: 😋🍫🥜 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

  - _40ml_ Syrup Caramel (low-sugar) [Sukrin] • 14g sorbitol, erythritol, stevia
  - _30ml_ Cream 32% [REWE Beste Wahl]
  - _20g_ Peanut butter (crunchy, organic) [REWE] • 250g glass jar
  - _10g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _5g_ Molasses [Grafschafter Goldsaft] • Sweetness = 66%

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Weigh and mix all ingredients in a small bowl.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 277.5 kcal; fat 18.9g; carbs 23.2g; sugar 5.6g; protein 5.6g; salt 0.1g
- **Nutritional values per serving (for 1 tub):** 105g; 291.4 kcal; fat 19.8g; carbs 24.3g; sugar 5.9g; protein 5.9g; salt 0.2g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.59
- **Net carbs:** 10.3g • *∝ 5 servings@21g:* 2.1g • *∝ 3 servings@35g:* 3.4g

Commit message:

served on cherries with cashews

recipes/Forget-Me-Nut Swirl/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- add the prepared dry ingredients
- put on the lid
- process with
excluded_tags:
- Fruit
- Scoopable
- Vanilla
tags:
- Erythritol
- Low-Sugar
- Stevia
---
# Forget-Me-Nut Swirl
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-forget-me-nut.png" />

A scandalously smooth frozen memento of caramel nostalgia and unapologetically nutty, impossible to forget once tasted.

> <img width=360 alt="Ingredients" src="forget-me-nut-ingredients.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Combine with your favorite vanilla or chocolate base.

> <img width=220 alt="Chocolate ice cream after Sorbet run" src="forget-me-nut-choco_2025-06-28_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Ice cream with caramel/peanut swirl" src="forget-me-nut-choco_2025-06-28_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Ice cream with caramel/peanut swirl" src="forget-me-nut-choco_2025-06-28_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Spun on Sorbet, swirl poured on top and folded in with a chopstick. Served on cherry confit, topped with crushed cashews.*

Rating: 😋😋😋🥜🥜

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

  - _40ml_ Syrup Caramel (low-sugar) [Sukrin] • 14g sorbitol, erythritol, stevia
  - _30ml_ Cream 32% [REWE Beste Wahl]
  - _20g_ Peanut butter (crunchy, organic) [REWE] • 250g glass jar
  - _10g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _5g_ Molasses [Grafschafter Goldsaft] • Sweetness = 66%

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Weigh and mix all ingredients in a small bowl.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 277.5 kcal; fat 18.9g; carbs 23.2g; sugar 5.6g; protein 5.6g; salt 0.1g
- **Nutritional values per serving (for 1 tub):** 105g; 291.4 kcal; fat 19.8g; carbs 24.3g; sugar 5.9g; protein 5.9g; salt 0.2g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.59
- **Net carbs:** 10.3g • *∝ 5 servings@21g:* 2.1g • *∝ 3 servings@35g:* 3.4g
