recipes/PB Swirl/README.md, before:

# PB Swirl

This adds a swirl to your processed creami base. The recipe for the base must allow to refreeze after processing.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/recipes/PB%20Swirl/pb-swirl_2025-05-06.jpg" />

# INGREDIENTS

  - _70ml_ Cream 32%
  - _20g_ PB powder
  - _10g_ Xylitol • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _0.25g_ Salt • 5-7 shakes

# DIRECTIONS

1. Put ingredients into a bowl, and stir with a spoon until smooth.

1. Make *several* small holes in your processed base, using the blunt end of a chopstick.
The base should not be too soft for this.
Place one hole in the center and 6 to 8 holes in a circle.

1. Then fill those holes with the cream/PB mix, and use the pointy end of a chopstick
to *carefully* fold the base and the swirl into each other, without mixing.

1. This is best done by slowly moving the chopstick in a circle,
sticking it diagonally into the base, while also slowly turning the tub until you did a full circle.

1. Refreeze for at least a few hours.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values total:** 100g; 318.9 kcal; fat 25.2g; carbs 18.2g; sugar 3.4g; protein 11.8g; salt 0.3g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 28.85

Commit message:

add peanut logo, and tags

recipes/PB Swirl/README.md, after:

---
description: PB swirl as a manual mix-in for refreezable bases.
tags:
- Draft
- Xylitol
- Vegan
---
# PB Swirl
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/recipes/PB%20Mix/pb-ice-cream-logo.png" />

This adds a swirl to your processed creami base. The recipe for the base must allow to refreeze after processing.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/recipes/PB%20Swirl/pb-swirl_2025-05-06.jpg" />

# INGREDIENTS

  - _70ml_ Cream 32% • Use coconut or soy cream to keep this vegan!
  - _20g_ PB powder
  - _10g_ Xylitol • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _0.25g_ Salt • 5-7 shakes

# DIRECTIONS

1. Put ingredients into a bowl, and stir with a spoon until smooth.

1. Make *several* small holes in your processed base, using the blunt end of a chopstick.
The base should not be too soft for this.
Place one hole in the center and 6 to 8 holes in a circle.

1. Then fill those holes with the cream/PB mix, and use the pointy end of a chopstick
to *carefully* fold the base and the swirl into each other, without mixing.

1. This is best done by slowly moving the chopstick in a circle,
sticking it diagonally into the base, while also slowly turning the tub until you did a full circle.

1. Refreeze for at least a few hours.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values total:** 100g; 318.9 kcal; fat 25.2g; carbs 18.2g; sugar 3.4g; protein 11.8g; salt 0.3g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 28.85
