recipes/Banana • Slim (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
canonical_url: https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/B/Banana%20%E2%80%A2%20Slim%20(Deluxe)/
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ^$
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Vanilla
remove:
- ' (to the MAX line)'
replace:
- Fill to MAX=>Adjust sweetness
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Banana • Slim (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/banana-ice-cream-logo.png" />

Process on *Frozen Yogurt*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that. Then a scrape-down and a respin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="banana-slim_2025-06-02.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋😋😋😋🍌 (June 2025)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative*: any other preferred milk (~2% fat)
  - _125g_ Bananas (peeled) • 1 mid-size banana, eat any surplus 😋
  - _30g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • click the link for UK / US equivalents
  - _16g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 8g (additional) VG for a sober recipe

**Dry**

  - _35g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 47g allulose or dextrose
  - _10g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *not-as-good substitute:* 1g guar, 0.3g xanthan, and 0.3g salt
  - _2g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]

**Adjust sweetness**

  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients and stir with a spoon.
 1. For better results, let the base age in the fridge (covered, lid on), for a few hours or over night. This helps flavor development and gum hydration, especially with unheated bases.
 1. Freeze for 24h with lid on, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 74.4 kcal; fat 2.2g; carbs 13.5g; sugar 3.2g; protein 2.5g; salt 0.1g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 252.9 kcal; fat 7.6g; carbs 46.0g; sugar 10.9g; protein 8.4g; salt 0.5g
- **Nutritional values total:** 678g; 504.3 kcal; fat 15.1g; carbs 91.8g; sugar 21.7g; protein 16.7g; salt 1.0g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.31
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 13.25% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 20.9g • 3.1%
- **Net carbs:** 41.4g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 8.3g • *∝ 3 servings@226g:* 13.8g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 32.8%
- **Dec 12, 2025:** Revised recipe, using new blends, and cream cheese
- **10g 'Salty Stability' is:** 7.3g Inulin • 1.2g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.6g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.33g Salt • 0.13g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

December 2025, Light Ice Cream + Mix-in with dark chocolate, very soft

recipes/Banana • Slim (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
canonical_url: https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/B/Banana%20%E2%80%A2%20Slim%20(Deluxe)/
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ^$
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Vanilla
remove:
- ' (to the MAX line)'
replace:
- Fill to MAX=>Adjust sweetness
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Banana • Slim (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/banana-ice-cream-logo.png" />

Process on *Frozen Yogurt*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that. Then a scrape-down and a respin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="banana-slim_2025-06-02.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋😋😋😋🍌 (June 2025)

> <img width=220 alt="After 1st Spin" src="banana-slim_2025-12-14_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="banana-slim_2025-12-14_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="banana-slim_2025-12-14_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

December 2025, Light Ice Cream + Mix-in with dark chocolate, very soft


# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative*: any other preferred milk (~2% fat)
  - _125g_ Bananas (peeled) • 1 mid-size banana, eat any surplus 😋
  - _30g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • click the link for UK / US equivalents
  - _16g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 8g (additional) VG for a sober recipe

**Dry**

  - _35g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 47g allulose or dextrose
  - _10g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *not-as-good substitute:* 1g guar, 0.3g xanthan, and 0.3g salt
  - _2g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]

**Adjust sweetness**

  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients and stir with a spoon.
 1. For better results, let the base age in the fridge (covered, lid on), for a few hours or over night. This helps flavor development and gum hydration, especially with unheated bases.
 1. Freeze for 24h with lid on, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 74.4 kcal; fat 2.2g; carbs 13.5g; sugar 3.2g; protein 2.5g; salt 0.1g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 252.9 kcal; fat 7.6g; carbs 46.0g; sugar 10.9g; protein 8.4g; salt 0.5g
- **Nutritional values total:** 678g; 504.3 kcal; fat 15.1g; carbs 91.8g; sugar 21.7g; protein 16.7g; salt 1.0g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.31
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 13.25% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 20.9g • 3.1%
- **Net carbs:** 41.4g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 8.3g • *∝ 3 servings@226g:* 13.8g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 32.8%
- **Dec 12, 2025:** Revised recipe, using new blends, and cream cheese
- **10g 'Salty Stability' is:** 7.3g Inulin • 1.2g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.6g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.33g Salt • 0.13g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
