recipes/Epic Spoons of Nom (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Dairy
- Vanilla
tags:
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Multi-Flavor
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Epic Spoons of Nom (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-ESoN.webp" />

> *Scoop big. Nom bigger. Taste the ESN.*
> 
> <img width=240 alt="ESN Flavor Powder" src="ESoN_2025-07-17_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />

This is a recipe specifically for ESN’s “Designer Flavor Powder”
— it is a low-sugar soy milk base with a touch of vanilla and only mild sweetness without the flavor powder.

> <img width=240 alt="Dry Ingredients" src="ESoN_2025-07-17_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**<br />Recipe is using only soy milk and protein.

Spin on “Sorbet”, scrape down, and respin or mix-in.

> <img width=220 alt="Spun on Sorbet" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After respin" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
>
> *Made with buttermilk, spun on sorbet followed by a respin.*

Rating: 😋😋😋😋 (used 12g, 8g will better)

> 💡 *You can also use 500ml buttermilk instead of soy milk, and leave out the trehalose.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _500ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _20g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _15g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _25g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _20g_ [Trehalose \[SaporePuro\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#trehalose-e965){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *none if using buttermilk* • POD = 45%; GI = 38
  - _15g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • unsweetened “ICSv2”
  - _20g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored
  - _8g_ Designer Flavor Powder [ESN] • ≈70% inulin
  - _2g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]

**Fill to MAX**

  - _95ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _≈1 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 72.3 kcal; fat 1.5g; carbs 11.6g; sugar 2.8g; protein 5.0g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 260.3 kcal; fat 5.4g; carbs 41.8g; sugar 10.2g; protein 18.0g; salt 0.8g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 520.6 kcal; fat 10.7g; carbs 83.7g; sugar 20.5g; protein 36.0g; salt 1.5g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.51
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 27.66% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 42.4g • 5.9%
- **Net carbs:** 37.1g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.4g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 12.4g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 28.5%
- **15g 'Salty Stability' is:** 11.0g Inulin • 1.8g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.9g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.6g Guar gum (E412) • 0.5g Salt • 0.2g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

Firmed up, served with pecans and a cookie

recipes/Epic Spoons of Nom (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Dairy
- Vanilla
tags:
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Multi-Flavor
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Epic Spoons of Nom (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-ESoN.webp" />

> *Scoop big. Nom bigger. Taste the ESN.*
> 
> <img width=240 alt="ESN Flavor Powder" src="ESoN_2025-07-17_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />

This is a recipe specifically for ESN’s “Designer Flavor Powder”
— it is a low-sugar soy milk base with a touch of vanilla and only mild sweetness without the flavor powder.

> <img width=240 alt="Dry Ingredients" src="ESoN_2025-07-17_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**<br />Recipe is using only soy milk and protein.

Spin on “Sorbet”, scrape down, and respin or mix-in.

> <img width=220 alt="Spun on Sorbet" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After respin" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
>
> *Made with buttermilk, spun on sorbet followed by a respin.*

Rating: 😋😋😋😋 (used 12g, 8g will better)

> <img width=480 alt="Scooped" src="ESoN_2025-07-18_4.jpg" class="zoomable" />
>
> Firmed up, served with pecans and a cookie.

💡 *You can also use 500ml buttermilk instead of soy milk, and leave out the trehalose.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _500ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _20g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _15g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _25g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _20g_ [Trehalose \[SaporePuro\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#trehalose-e965){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *none if using buttermilk* • POD = 45%; GI = 38
  - _15g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • unsweetened “ICSv2”
  - _20g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored
  - _8g_ Designer Flavor Powder [ESN] • ≈70% inulin
  - _2g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]

**Fill to MAX**

  - _95ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _≈1 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 72.3 kcal; fat 1.5g; carbs 11.6g; sugar 2.8g; protein 5.0g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 260.3 kcal; fat 5.4g; carbs 41.8g; sugar 10.2g; protein 18.0g; salt 0.8g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 520.6 kcal; fat 10.7g; carbs 83.7g; sugar 20.5g; protein 36.0g; salt 1.5g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.51
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 27.66% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 42.4g • 5.9%
- **Net carbs:** 37.1g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.4g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 12.4g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 28.5%
- **15g 'Salty Stability' is:** 11.0g Inulin • 1.8g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.9g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.6g Guar gum (E412) • 0.5g Salt • 0.2g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
