recipes/Shregg (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Alcohol
- Emulsifier
- Hi-Protein
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Shregg (Deluxe)

Egg liqueur ice cream.

Process on SORBET.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" class="zoomable" />

You can also use Baileys at 17 vol%, which bumps up
the energy to ~125 kcal.
And I’d use 3g GMS due to higher fat content.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _190ml_ Egg Liqueur 15 vol% [Bols Advocaat] • 1 bottle = 700ml
  - _10 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla [IronMaxx] • with sucralose

**Dry**

  - _30g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored
  - _20g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2g_ [Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _1g_ [Tara gum (E417)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#tara-gum-e417){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Fill to MAX**

  - _25ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 64.3 kcal; fat 2.8g; carbs 8.3g; sugar 7.3g; protein 5.9g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 231.6 kcal; fat 10.2g; carbs 29.8g; sugar 26.5g; protein 21.2g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 463.1 kcal; fat 20.4g; carbs 59.6g; sugar 52.9g; protein 42.4g; salt 1.2g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.43
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 36.59% • LOW-FAT • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 27.9g • 3.9%

Commit message:

add 'use cream for more richness' hint

recipes/Shregg (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Alcohol
- Emulsifier
- Hi-Protein
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Shregg (Deluxe)

Egg liqueur ice cream.

Process on SORBET.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" class="zoomable" />

You can also use Baileys at 17 vol%, which bumps up
the energy to ~125 kcal.
And I’d use 3g GMS due to higher fat content.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _190ml_ Egg Liqueur 15 vol% [Bols Advocaat] • 1 bottle = 700ml
  - _10 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla [IronMaxx] • with sucralose

**Dry**

  - _30g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored
  - _20g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2g_ [Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _1g_ [Tara gum (E417)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#tara-gum-e417){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Fill to MAX**

  - _25ml_ Water to MAX line • Use cream instead for more richness

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 64.3 kcal; fat 2.8g; carbs 8.3g; sugar 7.3g; protein 5.9g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 231.6 kcal; fat 10.2g; carbs 29.8g; sugar 26.5g; protein 21.2g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 463.1 kcal; fat 20.4g; carbs 59.6g; sugar 52.9g; protein 42.4g; salt 1.2g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.43
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 36.59% • LOW-FAT • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 27.9g • 3.9%
