recipes/Fruit Powder Mix/README.md, before:

# Fruit Powder Mix (Deluxe)

This one is a favorite, so it gets its own recipe mix for convenient indulgence…
It works for fruit or root powders with a sugar content from low (Ube, 10%) to high (Lingonberry, 73%).

Counting the pre-made mix as one, it is a 5 ingredients recipe, including the water.
Use ~125g of the mix in your final base (or 85g for a regular 16oz tub).

To make your life easier, take the “prep” ingredients times 4, mix them,
and store in an air-tight 1l or 1.3l container (1l is the minimum you need for 500g powder).
To mix, take a BIG bowl like used for baking, measure the ingredients,
and whisk them carefully but thoroughly. A ball whisk works best.

**Serves:** 4 tubs          
**Total:** 511 g          
**Per tub:** 128 g          

 * 140 g Skim Milkpowder 1:10 [Vita2You]
 * 120 g Whey protein Vanilla [MaxiNutrition]
 * 120 g Xylitol
 * 60 g Erythritol (E968)
 * 60 g Inulin [Vit4ever]
 * 6 g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC)
 * 2 g Tara gum (E417)
 * 2 g Salt
 * 0.60 g Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _35g_ Skim Milkpowder 1:10 [Vita2You]
  - _30g_ Whey protein Vanilla [MaxiNutrition]
  - _30g_ Xylitol • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7
  - _15g_ Erythritol (E968) • Sweetness = 75%
  - _15g_ Inulin [Vit4ever] • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _1.50g_ Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC)
  - _0.50g_ Tara gum (E417)
  - _0.50g_ Salt
  - _0.15g_ Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

**Wet**

  - _425ml_ Water
  - _100g_ Cottage Cheese 4% [REWE Bio]
  - _10g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5

**Dry**

  - _25g_ Ube Yam Root powder [Fil Choice] • like vanilla+pistachio

**Top Off**

  - _30ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 2. Add the prepared dry ingredients and the fruit powder, and blend QUICKLY using an immersion blender on full speed.
 3. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 4. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 80.2 kcal; fat 0.9g; carbs 13.8g; sugar 3.3g; protein 7.0g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 288.9 kcal; fat 3.1g; carbs 49.7g; sugar 12.0g; protein 25.0g; salt 0.9g
- **Nutritional values total:** 718g; 575.9 kcal; fat 6.2g; carbs 99.1g; sugar 23.8g; protein 49.9g; salt 1.8g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 25.45
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 34.66% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 75.7g • 10.5%

Commit message:

tested FP Mix with strawberry powder

recipes/Fruit Powder Mix/README.md, after:

# Fruit Powder Mix (Deluxe)

Spun in Light Ice Cream mode, plus a mix-in run with 10g freeze-dried strawberry slices.
Comes out as soft-serve, I put it back into the cold for 45min for a firmer consistency.

> <img width=720 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/recipes/Fruit%20Powder%20Mix/Strawberry-FP-Mix_2024-11-21.jpg" />

This one is a favorite, so it gets its own recipe mix for convenient indulgence…
It works for fruit or root powders with a sugar content from low (Ube, 10%) to high (Lingonberry, 73%).
Counting the pre-made mix as one, it is a 6 ingredients recipe for the final base, including the water.
Use ~110g of the mix in your final base (or 72g for a regular 16oz tub).

To make your life easier, take the “prep” ingredients times 4, mix them,
and store in an air-tight 1l container (the powder has a low density and needs space).
To mix, take a BIG bowl like used for baking, measure the ingredients,
and whisk them carefully but thoroughly. A ball whisk works best.

**Serves:** 4 tubs          
**Total:** 431 g          
**Per tub:** 108 g          

 * 120 g Whey protein Vanilla [MaxiNutrition]
 * 120 g Xylitol
 * 60 g Skim Milkpowder 1:10 [Vita2You]
 * 60 g Erythritol (E968)
 * 60 g Inulin [Vit4ever]
 * 6 g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC)
 * 2 g Tara gum (E417)
 * 2 g Salt
 * 0.60 g Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _30g_ Whey protein Vanilla [MaxiNutrition]
  - _30g_ Xylitol • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7
  - _15g_ Skim Milkpowder 1:10 [Vita2You]
  - _15g_ Erythritol (E968) • Sweetness = 75%
  - _15g_ Inulin [Vit4ever] • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _1.50g_ Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC)
  - _0.50g_ Tara gum (E417)
  - _0.50g_ Salt
  - _0.15g_ Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

**Wet**

  - _350ml_ Skim Milk 1.5% [Weihenstephan]
  - _100g_ Cottage Cheese 4% [REWE Bio]
  - _15g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5

**Dry**

  - _25g_ Strawberry powder [Supergarden]

**Top Off**

  - _125ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 2. Add the prepared dry ingredients mixed with the fruit powder, and blend QUICKLY using an immersion blender on full speed.
 3. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 4. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 92.0 kcal; fat 1.7g; carbs 14.3g; sugar 5.7g; protein 7.7g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 331.3 kcal; fat 6.0g; carbs 51.3g; sugar 20.5g; protein 27.7g; salt 1.0g
- **Nutritional values total:** 723g; 665.0 kcal; fat 12.1g; carbs 103.0g; sugar 41.2g; protein 55.5g; salt 1.9g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 30.32
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 33.40% • LOW-FAT • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 88.9g • 12.3%
