recipes/Lazy Skyr (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ^$
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Fruit
- Vanilla
tags:
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Multi-Flavor
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Lazy Skyr (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/froyo-ice-cream-logo.png" />

“Lazily” using a container of pre-flavored skyr (flavors: vanilla / blueberry/ cherry / strawberry),
just adding a few things for freezing point depression and ice crystal inhibition.

> <img width=220 alt="Aldi Skyr Vanilla" src="Lazy-Skyr_2025-08-17.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Spin on FroYo, scrape down, and respin or mix-in.

> <img width=220 alt="After FroYo" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🥛 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450ml_ Skyr “Vanilla” [Milsani / Aldi] • 500g container; vanilla / blueberry/ cherry / strawberry flavors
  - _150ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 53g lactose
  - _15g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 12g (additional) VG for a sober recipe
  - _5ml_ Lemon juice

**Dry**

  - _10g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • unsweetened “ICSv2”
  - _10g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia
  - _23g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 31g allulose or dextrose

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 86.3 kcal; fat 0.6g; carbs 13.5g; sugar 5.9g; protein 7.7g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 293.4 kcal; fat 2.1g; carbs 45.9g; sugar 20.0g; protein 26.1g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 678g; 585.1 kcal; fat 4.1g; carbs 91.5g; sugar 39.9g; protein 52.1g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.27
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 35.65% • LOW-FAT • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 95.1g • 14.0%
- **Net carbs:** 53.7g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 10.7g • *∝ 3 servings@226g:* 17.9g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 36.7%
- **10g 'Salty Stability' is:** 7.3g Inulin • 1.2g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.6g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.33g Salt • 0.13g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

add mint choc mix-in

recipes/Lazy Skyr (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ^$
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Fruit
- Vanilla
tags:
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Multi-Flavor
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Lazy Skyr (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/froyo-ice-cream-logo.png" />

“Lazily” using a container of pre-flavored skyr (flavors: vanilla / blueberry/ cherry / strawberry),
just adding a few things for freezing point depression and ice crystal inhibition.

> <img width=220 alt="Aldi Skyr Vanilla" src="Lazy-Skyr_2025-08-17.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Spin on FroYo, scrape down, and respin or mix-in.

For the vanilla flavor, frozen and chopped mint chocolater wafers are a nice mix-in.

> <img width=220 alt="After FroYo" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🥛 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450ml_ Skyr “Vanilla” [Milsani / Aldi] • 500g container; vanilla / blueberry/ cherry / strawberry flavors
  - _150ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 53g lactose
  - _15g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 12g (additional) VG for a sober recipe
  - _5ml_ Lemon juice

**Dry**

  - _10g_ [Salty Stability \[Inulin / GMS / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt\]](/ice-creamery/S/Salty%20Stability/){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • unsweetened “ICSv2”
  - _10g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia
  - _23g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 31g allulose or dextrose

**Mix-ins**

  - _30g_ [Mint Chocolate \[After Eight\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#mint-chocolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1pc ≈ 7.5g; freeze for more integrity, and chop them when frozen [128kcal, 20g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 86.3 kcal; fat 0.6g; carbs 13.5g; sugar 5.9g; protein 7.7g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 293.4 kcal; fat 2.1g; carbs 45.9g; sugar 20.0g; protein 26.1g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 678g; 585.1 kcal; fat 4.1g; carbs 91.5g; sugar 39.9g; protein 52.1g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.27
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 35.65% • LOW-FAT • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 95.1g • 14.0%
- **Net carbs:** 53.7g • *∝ 5 servings@136g:* 10.7g • *∝ 3 servings@226g:* 17.9g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 36.7%
- **10g 'Salty Stability' is:** 7.3g Inulin • 1.2g Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471) • 0.6g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.33g Salt • 0.13g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
