recipes/Pistachio Ice Cream (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vanilla
- Xylitol
---
# Pistachio Ice Cream (Deluxe)

Processed on Lite Ice Cream, came out as soft-serve on the firmer side of things.
Freeze again for about an hour to get to scoopable.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/blob/main/recipes/Pistachio%20Ice%20Cream%20(Deluxe)/Pistachio_2025-01-01.jpg?raw=true" />

Rating: 😋😋😋😋

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _250ml_ Skim Milk 1.5% [Weihenstephan]
  - _145g_ Greek Yogurt 9% [Lyttos]
  - _100g_ Cottage Cheese 4% [REWE Bio]
  - _30g_ Pistachio butter [Limfood]
  - _20g_ Almond butter (creamy) [Seba Garden]
  - _15g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5
  - _10g_ Brandy “Williams Birne” 40 vol%

**Dry**

  - _30g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / CMC / Tara / XG / Inulin] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/tree/main/recipes/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20%28ICS%29)
  - _25g_ Xylitol • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7
  - _20g_ Whey protein Vanilla [MaxiNutrition]
  - _4g_ Glycerol Monostearate (E471) [Bulk]

**Fill to MAX**

  - _71ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 132.4 kcal; fat 6.5g; carbs 12.1g; sugar 3.2g; protein 7.0g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 476.5 kcal; fat 23.4g; carbs 43.5g; sugar 11.7g; protein 25.3g; salt 0.9g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 952.9 kcal; fat 46.9g; carbs 87.1g; sugar 23.4g; protein 50.5g; salt 1.8g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 29.51
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.20% • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 68.2g • 9.5%
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 14.3g erythritol, 1.43g Tylose powder (CMC, E466), 
0.5g tara gum (E417), 0.15g xanthan (E415),
14.3g inulin, 0.5g salt.

Commit message:

mix GMS with oil first

recipes/Pistachio Ice Cream (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vanilla
- Xylitol
---
# Pistachio Ice Cream (Deluxe)

Processed on Lite Ice Cream, came out as soft-serve on the firmer side of things.
Freeze again for about an hour to get to scoopable.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/blob/main/recipes/Pistachio%20Ice%20Cream%20(Deluxe)/Pistachio_2025-01-01.jpg?raw=true" />

Rating: 😋😋😋😋

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _30g_ Pistachio butter [Limfood]
  - _20g_ Almond butter (creamy) [Seba Garden]
  - _4g_ Glycerol Monostearate (E471) [Bulk] • approx. 1½ tsp

**Wet**

  - _250ml_ Skim Milk 1.5% [Weihenstephan]
  - _145g_ Greek Yogurt 9% [Lyttos]
  - _100g_ Cottage Cheese 4% [REWE Bio]
  - _15g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5
  - _10g_ Brandy “Williams Birne” 40 vol%

**Dry**

  - _30g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / CMC / Tara / XG / Inulin] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/tree/main/recipes/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20%28ICS%29)
  - _25g_ Xylitol • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7
  - _20g_ Whey protein Vanilla [MaxiNutrition]

**Fill to MAX**

  - _71ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Mix the GMS with the nut butters first, then add the other ‘wet’ ingredients and blend to emulsify.
 1. Add the prepared dry ingredients, and blend QUICKLY using an immersion blender on full speed.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 132.4 kcal; fat 6.5g; carbs 12.1g; sugar 3.2g; protein 7.0g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 476.5 kcal; fat 23.4g; carbs 43.5g; sugar 11.7g; protein 25.3g; salt 0.9g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 952.9 kcal; fat 46.9g; carbs 87.1g; sugar 23.4g; protein 50.5g; salt 1.8g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 29.51
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.20% • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 68.2g • 9.5%
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 14.3g erythritol, 1.43g Tylose powder (CMC, E466), 
0.5g tara gum (E417), 0.15g xanthan (E415),
14.3g inulin, 0.5g salt.
