recipes/Strawberry Sangria (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Dairy
tags:
- Alcohol
- Dairy-Free
- Favorite
- Fruit
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sorbet
- Sucralose
- Vegan
---
# Strawberry Sangria (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-berry-sangria.png" />

> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**<br />Recipe is using only fruit and no dairy.

This creamy sorbet is inspired by Sangria, a refreshing, fruity, alcoholic punch originating from Spain and Portugal.

>💡**Using mulled wine**<br />If you can get ahold of it, mulled wine from berries (Bär Gløgg) is a great alternative to the red wine.

Process on *Sorbet*, then a scrape-down and a mix-in run.
Comes out “soft scoopable”, refreeze for at least 1–2 hours.

> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="Strawberry-Sangria_2025-06-14_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="Strawberry-Sangria_2025-06-14_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🍷🍓🍓🍓

> <img width=360 alt="Served" src="Strawberry-Sangria_Scooped_2025-06-15_1.jpg" class="zoomable" /><br />
> 
> *Served a day later, with a drizzle of pomegranate syrup.*

> <img width=360 alt="Variation by u/_phillimore" src="u-_phillimore-pinot-noir-blueberries-raspberries.webp" class="zoomable" /><br />
> 
> *Variation by [u/\_phillimore](https://www.reddit.com/user/_phillimore/): Pinot noir, blueberries, and raspberries.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _400g_ Strawberries • Alternatives: blueberries, berry mix, ...
  - _200ml_ Red Wine 13 vol% (dry) • also works with rosé or white wine
  - _20ml_ Lime juice + zest (organic) [REWE Bio] • 1 lime = 60..65g
  - _10g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _20g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _1g_ Salt
  - _1g_ [Xanthan gum (E415, XG)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xanthan-gum-xg-e415){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Fill to MAX**

  - _68ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • fill to MAX line
  - _6–12 drops_ Flavor drops Strawberry (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Zest the lime first, before juicing it.
 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 56.2 kcal; fat 0.4g; carbs 7.9g; sugar 3.6g; protein 0.7g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 202.3 kcal; fat 1.4g; carbs 28.5g; sugar 13.1g; protein 2.7g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 404.6 kcal; fat 2.7g; carbs 57.0g; sugar 26.1g; protein 5.4g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.67
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 5.32% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 0.0g • 0.0%
- **Net carbs:** 34.2g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 6.8g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 11.4g

Commit message:

show berry mix and CMC+protein optimization

recipes/Strawberry Sangria (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Dairy
tags:
- Alcohol
- Favorite
- Fruit
- Light
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sorbet
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vegan
---
# Strawberry Sangria (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-berry-sangria.png" />

> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**<br />Recipe is using only fruit and no dairy.

This creamy sorbet is inspired by Sangria, a refreshing, fruity, alcoholic punch originating from Spain and Portugal.

>💡**Using mulled wine**<br />If you can get ahold of it, mulled wine from berries (Bär Gløgg) is a great alternative to the red wine.

Process on *Sorbet*, then a scrape-down and a mix-in run.
Comes out “soft scoopable”, refreeze for at least 1–2 hours.

> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="Strawberry-Sangria_2025-06-14_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="Strawberry-Sangria_2025-06-14_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🍷🍓🍓🍓

> <img width=360 alt="Served" src="Strawberry-Sangria_Scooped_2025-06-15_1.jpg" class="zoomable" /><br />
> 
> *Served a day later, with a drizzle of pomegranate syrup.*

> <img width=360 alt="Variation by u/_phillimore" src="u-_phillimore-pinot-noir-blueberries-raspberries.webp" class="zoomable" /><br />
> 
> *Variation by [u/\_phillimore](https://www.reddit.com/user/_phillimore/): Pinot noir, blueberries, and raspberries.*

> <img width=360 alt="Berry mix and CMC" src="Sangria_2025-07-07_3.jpg" class="zoomable" /><br />
> 
> *Using a 1:1 mix of strawberries and blueberries, 15g inulin, 15g soy protein, 1g XG, and 1.5g CMC.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _400g_ Strawberries • Alternatives: blueberries, berry mix, ...
  - _200ml_ Red Wine 13 vol% (dry) • also works with rosé or white wine
  - _20ml_ Lime juice + zest (organic) [REWE Bio] • 1 lime = 60..65g
  - _10g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _20g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _1g_ Salt
  - _1g_ [Xanthan gum (E415, XG)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xanthan-gum-xg-e415){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Fill to MAX**

  - _68ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • fill to MAX line
  - _6–12 drops_ Flavor drops Strawberry (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Zest the lime first, before juicing it.
 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 56.2 kcal; fat 0.4g; carbs 7.9g; sugar 3.6g; protein 0.7g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 202.3 kcal; fat 1.4g; carbs 28.5g; sugar 13.1g; protein 2.7g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 404.6 kcal; fat 2.7g; carbs 57.0g; sugar 26.1g; protein 5.4g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.67
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 5.32% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 0.0g • 0.0%
- **Net carbs:** 34.2g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 6.8g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 11.4g
