recipes/Dulce de Leche • Vegan (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
tags:
- Dairy-Free
- Draft
- Erythritol
- Light
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Sucralose
- Vanilla
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Dulce de Leche • Vegan (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/logo-dolce-gelato.png" />

Process on Lite Ice Cream.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" />

The medjool dates used here have a distinctive caramel taste with hints of vanilla.

Rating: 😋 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _500ml_ Almond milk (unsweetened) [REWE Bio] • with guar gum (<1.5g)
  - _50g_ Medjool dates (pitted, organic) [Seba Garden] • approx. 5 dates
  - _25g_ Almond butter (creamy) [Seba Garden]
  - _10g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _5 drops_ Flavor drops Caramel [IronMaxx] • with sucralose

**Dry**

  - _20g_ Erythritol (E968) • POD = 75%
  - _15g_ Xylitol • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _15g_ Inulin [Vit4ever] • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _3.70g_ Salt
  - _0.30g_ Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

**Fill to MAX**

  - _81ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 68.9 kcal; fat 3.0g; carbs 12.0g; sugar 4.9g; protein 1.4g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 248.0 kcal; fat 10.9g; carbs 43.2g; sugar 17.7g; protein 5.1g; salt 2.2g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 496.0 kcal; fat 21.7g; carbs 86.4g; sugar 35.4g; protein 10.2g; salt 4.5g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 29.15
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 8.23% • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 0.0g • 0.0%

Commit message:

blend the dates to a smooth paste

recipes/Dulce de Leche • Vegan (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
tags:
- Dairy-Free
- Draft
- Erythritol
- Light
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Sucralose
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Dulce de Leche • Vegan (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/logo-dolce-gelato.png" />

Process on Lite Ice Cream.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="" />

The medjool dates used here have a distinctive caramel taste with hints of vanilla.

Rating: 😋 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _100ml_ Almond milk (unsweetened) [REWE Bio] • with guar gum (<1.5g)
  - _50g_ Medjool dates (pitted, organic) [Seba Garden] • approx. 5 dates
  - _25g_ Almond butter (creamy) [Seba Garden]
  - _10g_ Glycerin (E422, VG) [hd-line] • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _5 drops_ Flavor drops Caramel [IronMaxx] • with sucralose

**Wet**

  - _400ml_ Almond milk (unsweetened) [REWE Bio] • with guar gum (<1.5g)

**Dry**

  - _20g_ Erythritol (E968) • POD = 75%
  - _15g_ Xylitol • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _15g_ Inulin [Vit4ever] • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _3.70g_ Salt
  - _0.30g_ Xanthan gum (E415, XG)

**Fill to MAX**

  - _81ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Blend the dates with part of the milk and the other ‘prep’ ingredients to a smooth paste.
 1. Fill up with the rest of the milk.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 68.9 kcal; fat 3.0g; carbs 12.0g; sugar 4.9g; protein 1.4g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 248.0 kcal; fat 10.9g; carbs 43.2g; sugar 17.7g; protein 5.1g; salt 2.2g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 496.0 kcal; fat 21.7g; carbs 86.4g; sugar 35.4g; protein 10.2g; salt 4.5g
- **FPDF / PAC (target 20..30):** 29.15
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 8.23% • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%):** 0.0g • 0.0%
