recipes/Lemon Cake (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- thickeners are properly hydrated
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Vanilla
tags:
- Alcohol
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Gum-Free
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Sugar
- Scoopable
- Simple
- Sucralose
- Xylitol
---
# Lemon Cake (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-Lemon-Cake.png" />

> *A slice of Italian sunshine, one scoop at a time.*

<img style="float: left; margin-right: 1.5em;" width=180 alt="Ingredients" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-30_0.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Inspired by Italian lemon ricotta cake, this captures the essence of the classic dessert in frozen form,
and adds a spirited Limoncello twist (see the ingredients for a non-alcoholic alternative).

Process on *Sorbet*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that.
Then a scrape-down and a respin or mix-in.<br clear=all />

> <img width=220 alt="After Sorbet" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🍋🍋🍰🍰 (lemony-cheesy as expected, not very sour, but refreshing)

> <img width=442 alt="Served" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_4.jpg" class="zoomable" />

!!! info "Simple Recipe"

    Read [About 'Simple' Recipes](/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#about-simple-recipes)    regarding 'exotic' ingredients and their alternatives.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _330g_ [Soured milk 3.5% \[Schwälbchen\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soured-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* Creamed cottage cheese 4%
  - _250g_ Ricotta 9% fat (33% DM) [REWE Marca Italia] • *alternative:* Topfen / Quark 11–14%
  - _40ml_ Limoncello di Calabria 28 vol% [REWE] • *alternative:* 20g glycerin (VG) and 15ml lemon juice
  - _20ml_ Lime juice + zest (organic) [REWE Bio] • 1 lime = 60..65g

**Dry**

  - _40g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 53g allulose or dextrose
  - _5g_ [Waxy Maize Starch (E1442) \[Ultratex\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#waxy-maize-starch-e1442){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* [E1422](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#acetylated-distarch-adipate-e1422)
  - _0.25g_ Salt • 7 quick shakes (with my shaker)
  - _1–2 pinches_ ❔Turmeric • *optional*, for color

**Fill to MAX**

  - _≈4 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Zest the lime first, before juicing it.
 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 104.9 kcal; fat 5.0g; carbs 11.4g; sugar 4.7g; protein 5.3g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 356.7 kcal; fat 16.9g; carbs 38.9g; sugar 16.0g; protein 17.9g; salt 0.5g
- **Nutritional values total:** 685g; 719.0 kcal; fat 34.1g; carbs 78.4g; sugar 32.2g; protein 36.0g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.30
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 20.03% • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 65.1g • 9.5%
- **Net carbs:** 38.4g • *∝ 5 servings@137g:* 7.7g • *∝ 3 servings@228g:* 12.8g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 21.3%

Commit message:

2025-11-07: slice of cake mix-in

recipes/Lemon Cake (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- thickeners are properly hydrated
excluded_tags:
- Allulose
- Vanilla
tags:
- Alcohol
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Gum-Free
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Sugar
- Scoopable
- Simple
- Sucralose
- Xylitol
---
# Lemon Cake (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-Lemon-Cake.png" />

> *A slice of Italian sunshine, one scoop at a time.*

<img style="float: left; margin-right: 1.5em;" width=180 alt="Ingredients" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-30_0.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Inspired by Italian lemon ricotta cake, this captures the essence of the classic dessert in frozen form,
and adds a spirited Limoncello twist (see the ingredients for a non-alcoholic alternative).

Process on *Sorbet*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that.
Then a scrape-down and a respin or mix-in.<br clear=all />

> <img width=220 alt="After Sorbet" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🍋🍋🍰🍰 (lemony-cheesy as expected, not very sour, but refreshing)

> <img width=442 alt="Served" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-08-31_4.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Processed using *Sorbet*, followed by a scrape-down, respin, and mix-in with a diced frozen slice of cake.

> <img width=164 alt="After Sorbet" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-11-07_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=164 alt="After Respin" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-11-07_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=164 alt="Mix-in" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-11-07_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=164 alt="Scooped" src="Lemon-Cake_2025-11-07_4.jpg" class="zoomable" />

!!! info "Simple Recipe"

    Read [About 'Simple' Recipes](/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#about-simple-recipes)    regarding 'exotic' ingredients and their alternatives.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _330g_ [Soured milk 3.5% \[Schwälbchen\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soured-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* Creamed cottage cheese 4%
  - _250g_ Ricotta 9% fat (33% DM) [REWE Marca Italia] • *alternative:* Topfen / Quark 11–14%
  - _40ml_ Limoncello di Calabria 28 vol% [REWE] • *alternative:* 20g glycerin (VG) and 15ml lemon juice
  - _20ml_ Lime juice + zest (organic) [REWE Bio] • 1 lime = 60..65g

**Dry**

  - _40g_ [SweEX (Erythritol + Xylitol 3:2)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* 53g allulose or dextrose
  - _5g_ [Waxy Maize Starch (E1442) \[Ultratex\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#waxy-maize-starch-e1442){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* [E1422](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#acetylated-distarch-adipate-e1422)
  - _0.25g_ Salt • 7 quick shakes (with my shaker)
  - _1–2 pinches_ ❔Turmeric • *optional*, for color

**Fill to MAX**

  - _≈4 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Zest the lime first, before juicing it.
 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 104.9 kcal; fat 5.0g; carbs 11.4g; sugar 4.7g; protein 5.3g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 356.7 kcal; fat 16.9g; carbs 38.9g; sugar 16.0g; protein 17.9g; salt 0.5g
- **Nutritional values total:** 685g; 719.0 kcal; fat 34.1g; carbs 78.4g; sugar 32.2g; protein 36.0g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.30
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 20.03% • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 65.1g • 9.5%
- **Net carbs:** 38.4g • *∝ 5 servings@137g:* 7.7g • *∝ 3 servings@228g:* 12.8g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 21.3%
