docs/info/faq.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions <img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=160 alt="Logo" src="/ice-creamery/info/logo-faq.png" /><br />(FAQ)
Some questions that are asked a lot, and their answers.

## What is the "Deluxe Tub" mentioned in the recipes?
The "Deluxe Tub" refers to the 24oz size container used with the Ninja Creami Deluxe model.

Many of the nutritional values provided in the recipes are calculated based on a full Deluxe Tub (680g total) or half of one (360g).

## What is Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) and why is it used?

Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is a pre-mixed blend of dry ingredients used in many recipes. Its purpose is to simplify the ice cream making process by pre-measuring and combining ingredients like erythritol, Tylose powder (CMC), tara gum, xanthan, inulin, and salt.

Using this mix helps ensure consistent ratios of these stabilizing and sweetening agents, making the overall process less finicky and easier when using just a kitchen scale.

## What are some common ingredients used in these recipes?

Several ingredients appear frequently across the recipes, including skim milk (often 1.5%), cottage cheese, Greek yogurt, almond milk (unsweetened), various fruits (like banana, berries, plums, peaches, apples), cocoa powder, almond butter, and flavoring agents like vanilla extract and flavor drops.

The Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) blend, containing erythritol, Tylose powder, tara gum, xanthan, and inulin, is also a core component in many recipes.

Additionally, some recipes incorporate alcohol like fruit brandy or vodka.

## What nutritional metrics are highlighted in the recipes?

Beyond standard nutritional values (calories, fat, carbs, sugar, protein, salt), the recipes often include metrics like "FPDF / PAC (target 20..30)", "Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%)", and "Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%)". 

This shows a focus on optimizing the recipes for factors like freeze point depression, protein content relative to calories, and the percentage of non-fat milk solids, which can impact the texture and nutritional profile of the frozen dessert.

## Are there options for those with dietary restrictions?

Yes, the collection includes recipes catering to specific dietary needs or preferences. There are tags like "Dairy-Free" and "Vegan", as well as recipes explicitly listed as such, like the "Banana • Dairy-Free + Vegan (Deluxe)".

## What are "Light Recipes"?

"Light Recipes" are defined as those containing less than 75 kcal per 100g, focussing on creating lower-calorie frozen desserts.

Several recipes are listed under this category at the bottom of the "Tags" page.

## How are the ice cream bases typically prepared and processed?

The general process involves weighing and mixing "wet" and "dry" ingredients, typically using an immersion blender to ensure thickeners are properly hydrated. The mixture is then frozen for 24 hours.

After freezing, the base is typically processed in a Ninja Creami machine, often with the "RESPIN" mode if the texture is not creamy enough after the initial processing.

Commit message:

add FAQ: What sweetener is 'best'?

docs/info/faq.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions <img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=160 alt="Logo" src="/ice-creamery/info/logo-faq.png" /><br />(FAQ)
Some questions that are asked a lot, and their answers.

## What is the "Deluxe Tub" mentioned in the recipes?
The "Deluxe Tub" refers to the 24oz size container used with the Ninja Creami Deluxe model.

Many of the nutritional values provided in the recipes are calculated based on a full Deluxe Tub (680g total) or half of one (360g).

## What is Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) and why is it used?

Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is a pre-mixed blend of dry ingredients used in many recipes. Its purpose is to simplify the ice cream making process by pre-measuring and combining ingredients like erythritol, Tylose powder (CMC), tara gum, xanthan, inulin, and salt.

Using this mix helps ensure consistent ratios of these stabilizing and sweetening agents, making the overall process less finicky and easier when using just a kitchen scale.

## What are some common ingredients used in these recipes?

Several ingredients appear frequently across the recipes, including skim milk (often 1.5%), cottage cheese, Greek yogurt, almond milk (unsweetened), various fruits (like banana, berries, plums, peaches, apples), cocoa powder, almond butter, and flavoring agents like vanilla extract and flavor drops.

The Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) blend, containing erythritol, Tylose powder, tara gum, xanthan, and inulin, is also a core component in many recipes.

Additionally, some recipes incorporate alcohol like fruit brandy or vodka.

## What sweetener is 'best'?

First, 'best' is highly subjective, some people get an aftertaste that other people don't, and 'healthy' is also in the eye of the beholder. Individual GI effects, especially when it comes to sugar alcohols, are also a factor to consider.

To get this out of the way, if you have no dietary restrictions and don't eat whole tubs at once, table sugar (sucrose) and dextrose are probably 'best'.
Add light corn syrup (or rice/agave syrup) for improved consistency, and you're covered. The rest of this answer covers low GI / lower or no calories options.

The next best 'natural' thing to sugar is [Trehalose (E965)](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#trehalose-e965) — tastes like sugar and has the same PAC and calories. but is half as sweet and has a way lower GI.

Then there are the lowcal / 0-cal sweeteners, try allulose first (in the US/CA market, maybe combined with monk fruit, to make it as sweet as table sugar).
Next is a monkfruit/erythritol combo, but be aware that erythritol should be combined with another bulky sweetener to prevent crystallization.
A universally (globally) available option is [SweEX](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#sweex-erythritol-xylitol-blend),
an Erythritol / Xylitol blend. All these options have a POD of 70..100, and a PAC from 190 to 280.

Finally, have some ultra-sweetener at hand, so you can up the sweetness level without texture impact.
Common options are monkfruit, stevia, and sucralose; possibly also as "flavor drops", to give a recipe a boost in the right direction.
Liquid options >(with a dropper included) are easier to handle, for powdered forms you needs a very exact scale (0.01g precision).
For details, see [Beginner's Guide to Scoopable Ice Cream](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/wiki/Beginner%27s-Guide-to-Scoopable-Ice-Cream).

To reduce (subjective!) aftertaste effects by masking them, you can use a pinch of salt (which you should add anyway).
And *Pepsi* has patent `US6265012B1` to [reduce the lingering sweet aftertaste of sucralose](https://patents.google.com/patent/US6265012B1/en),
by adding tannin or tannic acid to your base (also used in wine production).

## What nutritional metrics are highlighted in the recipes?

Beyond standard nutritional values (calories, fat, carbs, sugar, protein, salt), the recipes often include metrics like "FPDF / PAC (target 20..30)", "Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%)", and "Milk Solids Non-Fat (MSNF, 7-11%)". 

This shows a focus on optimizing the recipes for factors like freeze point depression, protein content relative to calories, and the percentage of non-fat milk solids, which can impact the texture and nutritional profile of the frozen dessert.

## Are there options for those with dietary restrictions?

Yes, the collection includes recipes catering to specific dietary needs or preferences. There are tags like "Dairy-Free" and "Vegan", as well as recipes explicitly listed as such, like the "Banana • Dairy-Free + Vegan (Deluxe)".

## What are "Light Recipes"?

"Light Recipes" are defined as those containing less than 75 kcal per 100g, focussing on creating lower-calorie frozen desserts.

Several recipes are listed under this category at the bottom of the "Tags" page.

## How are the ice cream bases typically prepared and processed?

The general process involves weighing and mixing "wet" and "dry" ingredients, typically using an immersion blender to ensure thickeners are properly hydrated. The mixture is then frozen for 24 hours.

After freezing, the base is typically processed in a Ninja Creami machine, often with the "RESPIN" mode if the texture is not creamy enough after the initial processing.
