docs/info/glossary.md, before:

## Dextrose Equivalent (DE)

A measure of the amount of reducing sugars present in a sugar product, expressed as a percentage on a dry basis relative to dextrose (percentage of glucose molecules in dry matter).

The dextrose equivalent gives an indication of the average degree of polymerisation (DP) for starch sugars. As a rule of thumb, `DE × DP = 120`.

## Freezing Point Depression Factor (FPDF)

See [PAC](#potere-anti-congelante-pac).

## Glycemic Index (GI)
The GI is a measure of how quickly your blood sugar rises after consuming certain foods.

> <img width=720 alt="Low & high GI" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/glycemic-index.png" />

Only foods that contain carbohydrates have a GI, while those with only fats and proteins do not, even though in people with diabetes, they can also affect the change rate of blood sugar.

## Hydrophilic-Lipophilic Balance (HLB)

HLB is a numerical value assigned to emulsifiers to describe their balance
between hydrophilic (water-loving) and lipophilic (oil-loving) properties.

It's a scale from 0 to 20, with 0 being highly lipophilic (oil-soluble)
and 20 being highly hydrophilic (water-soluble).

HLB dictates the stability and performance of an emulsion.
The HLB of the emulsifier needs to match the HLB requirements
of the oil phase to create a stable emulsion.

## Potere Anti Congelante (PAC)

PAC is the same as FPDF but includes lactose, which constitutes 54.5% of MSNF. Typically SMP (skimmed milk powder) contains 97% MSNF, so 53% of lactose.

The PAC method should be used when lactose concentration significantly varies or is high enough to make the ice cream too soft.

*Total FPDF:* Sum of (weight[g] * specific FPDF) over all sweeteners (in 100g ice cream mix).

 Ice cream stored at -18°C with a total FPDF of 20..25 will be easily scoopable, while <15 will be quite hard. Ice cream is considered soft enough when about 65% of the water molecules are frozen at serving temperature (e.g. -11°C).

 For milk ice cream, target range is 24-28 (double the serving temp, i.e. 2*-12°C), for sorbets 30-36 (factor 2.5).

## Potere Dolcificante (POD)

POD measures the sweetness of an ingredient relative to sucrose (table sugar). It is also known as PS (Pouvoir Sucrant) in France and SP (Sweetening Power) in the US.

By convention, the POD of sucrose is 100. Dextrose for example has a POD of 70, which means it is less sweet compared to the same amount of sugar. This can be used to change the PAC while keeping the POD stable, by using sucrose and dextrose (or other sweeteners with a higher PAC) in specific ratios.

## Synergistic Interaction Gels (SIGs)

The interaction of specific thickeners can lead to the formation of gel networks,
which influences the texture and mouth-feel of ice cream. 
These gels influence ice crystal formation by capturing water molecules,
and also can simulate the presence of missing fat.

SIGs are typically more potent and sometimes have new characteristics compared
to the isolated use of their components.

A typical example is the combination of LBG and XG.

Commit message:

glossary: high and low GI ranges

docs/info/glossary.md, after:

## Dextrose Equivalent (DE)

A measure of the amount of reducing sugars present in a sugar product, expressed as a percentage on a dry basis relative to dextrose (percentage of glucose molecules in dry matter).

The dextrose equivalent gives an indication of the average degree of polymerisation (DP) for starch sugars. As a rule of thumb, `DE × DP = 120`.

## Freezing Point Depression Factor (FPDF)

See [PAC](#potere-anti-congelante-pac).

## Glycemic Index (GI)
The [GI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glycemic_index) is a measure of how quickly your blood sugar rises after consuming certain foods. Pure glucose is arbitrarily given the value of 100, and a GI of 55 or less is considered low, while 70 or more is classified as high, leaving the mid-range at 56 to 69.

> <img width=720 alt="Low & high GI" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/glycemic-index.png" />

Only foods that contain carbohydrates have a GI, while those with only fats and proteins do not, even though in people with diabetes, they can also affect the change rate of blood sugar.

## Hydrophilic-Lipophilic Balance (HLB)

HLB is a numerical value assigned to emulsifiers to describe their balance
between hydrophilic (water-loving) and lipophilic (oil-loving) properties.

It's a scale from 0 to 20, with 0 being highly lipophilic (oil-soluble)
and 20 being highly hydrophilic (water-soluble).

HLB dictates the stability and performance of an emulsion.
The HLB of the emulsifier needs to match the HLB requirements
of the oil phase to create a stable emulsion.

## Potere Anti Congelante (PAC)

PAC is the same as FPDF but includes lactose, which constitutes 54.5% of MSNF. Typically SMP (skimmed milk powder) contains 97% MSNF, so 53% of lactose.

The PAC method should be used when lactose concentration significantly varies or is high enough to make the ice cream too soft.

*Total FPDF:* Sum of (weight[g] * specific FPDF) over all sweeteners (in 100g ice cream mix).

 Ice cream stored at -18°C with a total FPDF of 20..25 will be easily scoopable, while <15 will be quite hard. Ice cream is considered soft enough when about 65% of the water molecules are frozen at serving temperature (e.g. -11°C).

 For milk ice cream, target range is 24-28 (double the serving temp, i.e. 2*-12°C), for sorbets 30-36 (factor 2.5).

## Potere Dolcificante (POD)

POD measures the sweetness of an ingredient relative to sucrose (table sugar). It is also known as PS (Pouvoir Sucrant) in France and SP (Sweetening Power) in the US.

By convention, the POD of sucrose is 100. Dextrose for example has a POD of 70, which means it is less sweet compared to the same amount of sugar. This can be used to change the PAC while keeping the POD stable, by using sucrose and dextrose (or other sweeteners with a higher PAC) in specific ratios.

## Synergistic Interaction Gels (SIGs)

The interaction of specific thickeners can lead to the formation of gel networks,
which influences the texture and mouth-feel of ice cream. 
These gels influence ice crystal formation by capturing water molecules,
and also can simulate the presence of missing fat.

SIGs are typically more potent and sometimes have new characteristics compared
to the isolated use of their components.

A typical example is the combination of LBG and XG.
