docs/info/ingredients.md, before:

# Ingredients

Here you can find some background information about common ingredients in ice cream recipes.

## Freezing Point Depression Factors

Freezing point depression factor (FPDF) of common ingredients:

 * Sucrose (1:1 glucose:fructose) / Lactose / Polydextrose 1.0
 * Ethanol 7.4 (40vol% booze 2.96)
 * Salt (sodium chloride, NaCl) 5.9
 * Vegetable glycerin 3.7 (sweetness=60%; GI=5)
 * Erythritol 2.8
 * Xylitol 2.2
 * Allulose / Fructose / Dextrose / Invert sugar / Sorbitol / Honey 1.9
 * Agave Syrup 1.8
 * Glucose Syrup (42 DE) 1.29
 * MC corn starch 0.5
 * Glucose Syrup (28 DE) 0.5
 * Maltodextrin (18 DE)	0.34 (other sources: 1.29)
 * Inulin 0.1 (other sources: 0.25)

 Ultra-sweet fluids (sucralose, stevia/steviol, monk fruit) have no effect
 on the freezing point, since they lack the necessary mass.
 If in powdered form, make sure the bulking agent has no effect
 – quite often erythritol is used since it adds no calories.


## Sweeteners

### Allulose

Using it as a single sweetener in ice cream results in a poor texture,
only use in combination with e.g. erythritol.

### Erythritol (E968)

Sugar alcohol with a cooling mouth-feel and about 75% as sweet as sugar (add ⅓ when swapping). Erythritol is non-caloric.

Erythritol lowers the freezing point of water drastically (2.8x compared to sugar).

It has a strong tendency to crystallise in long-term frozen state (weeks), leading to a hard texture. This can be alleviated by adding at least 0.05% of a stabilizer, and staying below 8% of total weight.
Mixing with at least 40% of xylitol has the same effect.

*Dosage:* 6.5-8% of an ice cream base.

### Inulin

Inulin is a naturally occurring polysaccharide, and used to improve mouthfeel, stability, acceptability of low-fat ice creams, and forms a gel-like network that binds water.

Inulin has fewer calories (2 kcal/g) compared to fat (9 kcal/g) or sucrose (4 kcal/g).

Fat can be reduced by 50% with 5% native inulin — i.e. up to 35g in a Deluxe tub. It improves creaminess perception and melting resistance. Typically 10-20g in a 720g mix is enough.

RDA is 8-18g (tested for up to 24 weeks). Most common side effects include gas, bloating, diarrhea, constipation, and cramps. As a fructan, inulin has minimal impact on increasing blood sugar.

Natural chicory / agave inulin has 8g sugar, and 88% fiber. Further processing leads to HP inulin that has 97% fiber and 0% sugar, and it needs to be heated to 65°C to dissolve.

> <sup>*Source:* https://www.icecreamscience.com/blog/why-is-inulin-used-in-ice-cream</sup>

### Stevia (E960)

Stevia is a natural, calorie-free sweetener derived from the leaves of the *Stevia rebaudiana* plant, native to South America. The leaves contain compounds called steviol glycosides, which are significantly sweeter than sugar (around 200-400 times sweeter).

Many people find stevia to have a slightly bitter or licorice aftertaste.

In ice cream, stevia in its pure form (as a liquid) makes it simple to dial in the sweetness of a base without influencing its texture and PAC value.

### Sucralose (E955)

Sucralose is a non-caloric artificial sweetener that is about 600 times sweeter than table sugar.
It is derived from sucrose through a chemical process.
Sucralose is commonly known by the brand name Splenda.

Like stevia, when used in liquid form, it makes it simple to dial in the sweetness of a base without influencing its texture and PAC value.

### Vegetable Glycerin / Glycerol (VG / E422)

Glycerin, also known as glycerol or E422, is widely used in ice cream to reduce the hardness of the frozen base.
It is a sugar alcohol and has one of the highest freezing point depression factors, at 3.7 compared to table sugar.

It is a clear, odorless, and sweet-tasting liquid with a syrupy consistency.

*Vegetable* glycerin is typically made from plant oils like soybean, coconut, or palm oil.
It has 60% the sweetness of table sugar, and is hygroscopic.
Shelf life of glycerin is 24 months when stored below 100°F in a closed container.

*Dosage:*  Add 5-15g to a 720g mix.

Glycerin serves several key purposes in ice cream:

 * *Anti-freeze and Anti-crystallization:* This is its primary function. Glycerin helps to prevent the formation of large, hard ice crystals, which can make ice cream feel icy and less creamy. By lowering the freezing point of water and retaining moisture, it ensures a smoother, more scoopable texture, even at very low freezer temperatures. This is particularly beneficial for homemade ice cream, or for ice creams that are refrozen.
 * *Humectant:* It acts as a humectant, meaning it helps to retain moisture. This contributes to the overall texture and prevents the ice cream from drying out or becoming too hard.
 * *Emulsifier:* Glycerin can help oil and water-based ingredients mix more effectively, improving the stability and consistency of the ice cream.
 * *Sweetener:* While it has a mild sweetness (about 60-75% as sweet as sugar), its sweetening power in the small amounts used in ice cream is often negligible compared to its other functional benefits. It's also considered a sugar substitute with a lower glycemic index.


### Xylitol (E967)

Sugar alcohol which is as sweet as sugar at 236 kcal (sugar: 405 kcal).
It has a low glycemic index, so only count 35-40% for net carbs.

Xylit has no daily intake limits defined, but consuming smaller amounts
of 5-10g over a day is recommended, due to the effects on the digestive system.


## Thickeners

[Thickeners (E4xx group)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_number#E400%E2%80%93E499)
are texturizing agents and natural hydrocolloids to stabilize, thicken, gelify, emulsify, or bind liquids (water).

Most thickeners are hydrocolloids, which are hydrophilic molecules that have a high molecular weight. They are used as functional ingredients in food formulation for increasing food consistency, improving gelling effect, and controlling the microstructure, texture, flavor, and shelf life.

Many thickeners also have an emulsifying effect.

Using only a singular thickener means you often miss out on synergistic effects of a combination of several thickeners, e.g. forming specific kinds of gels (SIGs).

 * Use guar/tara in combination with xanthan, ratio `4TG:1XG` or `3GG:1XG`.
 * Guar gum and LBG is also a good combination (`3GG:2LBG`).
 * Similarly, CMC and GMS should always go together, and can be combined with GG. Use 0.2–0.5% of the mix for each, the exact ratios depend on the make-up of your mix, and targets like creaminess, resistance to melting, and mouthfeel. Start on the lower ends, and adjust until you hit your targets.
 * Another complementary combination is guar (0.1–0.3%), CMC / tylo (0.1–0.3%), and gum arabic (0.1–0.5%). Again, start on the lower ends, and adjust until you hit your desired targets. A Deluxe tub dosage would be 2g+2g (GG:CMC) vs. 1.25+1.25+1.5g (GG:CMC:GA).

 Blends recommended by `under-belly.org` (dosage generally 0.15% of total weight):

  * *Gelatin + XG*: Use a 3:1 ratio, 1g+⅓g / 1kg.
  * *LBG + GG + λC* (general purpose): 4:2:1, 0.8g+0.4g+0.2g / 1kg (0.25% of water weight); has to be heated to >80°C for full LBG hydration.
  * *Soy Lecithin + LBG + GG + λC* (eggless): 4:4:2:1, 1g+1g+0.5g+0.25g / 1kg (0.4% of water weight); has to be heated to >80°C for full LBG hydration.
  * *CMC + GG + λC* (sorbet): 2:1:1, 2g+1g+1g / 1kg (0.5% of water weight); no cooking; add 1g lecithin when you have fatty ingredients (nut butter, melted chocolate, ...).

### Acacia Gum (Gum Arabic / E414)
Gum arabic is a complex mixture of glycoproteins and polysaccharides, predominantly polymers of arabinose and galactose. It is soluble in water.

### Agar-Agar (E406)
Agar-Agar is a natural, plant-based gelling and thickening agent (hydrocolloid), derived from red algae. It's commonly used as a vegan alternative to gelatin, since it is also tasteless and odorless; its gelling power is higher. It is heat-stable and acid-stable, and resulting gels tend to be brittle.

 * Hydration: simmer for 3…5min at 100°C.
 * LBG / Agar mix: 0.25% LBG + 0.2% agar / for juice noodles: 0.33% each / *replace* 5% … 15% of agar.
 * For a gel: 0.2% soft gels / 3.0% firm gels.
 * For a fluid gel: 0.5% to 2.0% / fluid gels are made by blending the already set gel.
 * For foam: 0.3% to 1.0% for light foams and 1.0% to 2.0% for denser foams.

> <sup>*Source:* https://www.amazingfoodmadeeasy.com/info/modernist-ingredients/more/agar-agar</sup>

### Carrageenans (E407)
[Carrageenans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carrageenan) are a family of natural polysaccharides derived from red seaweed (*Irish Moss*), and used as a thickening, emulsifying, and stabilizing agent. They improve texture and prevent ice crystal formation, and are often added to plant-based milks.

Different types of carrageenan exist, each with slightly different properties, including κ-carrageenan, ι-carrageenan, and λ-carrageenan. 

 * *Kappa* forms strong, rigid gels in the presence of potassium ions, and reacts with dairy proteins.
 * *Iota* forms soft gels in the presence of calcium ions.
 * *Lambda* does not gel, and is used to thicken dairy products.

Alternative natural thickeners include xanthan, guar/tara/carob gum, and pectin. Synergies exist, especially with LBG.

*Safety:* Carrageenans are considered GRAS by the FDA, and an EFSA re-evaluation concluded that they are not absorbed intact, and there is no concern with respect to carcinogenicity or genotoxicity. EFSA sees the need to obtain further data though, to address identified gaps.

### Carboxymethyl Cellulose (CMC / E466)

CMC is used to stabilize and improve the texture of ice cream. It's a thickening agent and emulsifier that helps prevent ice crystals from forming, resulting in a smoother, more scoopable ice cream. It can also improve the ice cream's resistance to melting, keeping it firmer for longer.

Combine it with GMS (emulsifier), in a 7:1 to 4:1 ratio (up to 1% of water content; typically 0.3% GMS and 0.05–0.15% CMC).

*Also know as:* cellulose gum / Tylo / Tylose / Blütenpuder.

### Guar Gum (E412)

Guar gum is a binding agent which combines favorably with LBG or XG. If combined with XG, use a `3GG:1XG` ratio. If replacing XG, use 3 parts GG for 2 parts of XG (3:2 ratio).

For hydration, heat it to 80°C, or let it soak for a few minutes. Guar gum can withstand 80°C for a few minutes, beyond that point it degrades and looses effectiveness.

*Dosage:* Use 0.1% … 0.3% in ice cream (max. 1.5%). It creates a creamy mouth feel, and can replace milk or cream powder. Tara gum can replace guar gum.


### Locust Bean Gum (LBG / E410)

LBG is a vegetable-based hydrocolloid extracted from the seeds of the carob tree.
It's a galactomannan polysaccharide, meaning it's made up of sugar molecules (galactose and mannose).

It serves as a thickening agent, stabilizer, and emulsifier.
LBG has a high viscosity, transparency and brightness.
It is synergistic when combined with other hydrocolloids to increase their gelling properties.

 * *Dosage:* 0.15% … 0.75% of liquid (combined with other ingredients)

   * 0.4% for desserts
   * Prevents boil-over of pie fruit filling (0.1…0.3%)

 * Fully hydrated at 90°C, gels at about 85°C.
 * Combine with xanthan for a cold gel.
 * Combine with agar to get a less brittle / more elastic gel.
 * Stabilizes ice cream, combined with guar and/or CMC.

*Also know as:* carob / Johannisbrotkernmehl.

### Tara Gum (E417)
Tara can replace guar 1:1 in recipes and will give you slightly better results, on average. It creates a creamier, richer mouth feel than guar gum.

*Dosage:* 0.05-0.15% for ice cream, sorbet and sherbet.

### Xanthan Gum (XG / E415)
[Xanthan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xanthan_gum) works at room temperature. To easily mix it with water, dissolve in some oil or mix with other dry ingredients first. For liquids, always use a blender or immersion blender.

Combine it with LBG for a cold gel. At certain ratios, like 7:3 LBG to XG, the synergistic effect is maximized, resulting in a harder gel. Heating can facilitate the formation of the gel network.

## Emulsifiers

### Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471)
Glycerol Monostearate (GMS) is an emulsifier, and also a thickening and anti-caking agent. In ice cream, it adds body and helps to create a smooth texture (by reducing ice crystal formation), and prevents it from drying out or being too sweet.
It's most often used in egg-less ice cream bases, and in combination with CMC.

GMS takes the form of a white, odorless, and sweet-tasting flaky powder that is hygroscopic.
It's the result of a chemical reaction of glycerol with stearic acid,
both typically refined from plant or animal sources.

Due to its low HLB value of around 3.8–5.4, to incorporate GMS into a water-based solution,
it can be first mixed with oil and then blended into the water phase (similar to xanthan).

GMS is typically used at concentrations of 0.1% to 0.5% of the total mix.
When used with CMC, typical ratios go from 2:1 to 7:1 (GMS:CMC).

### Soy Lecithin (E322)
Soy lecithin is an emulsifier gained from soy beans, and used in ice cream to improve texture and stability.

Lecithin reduces the surface tension between fat and water, contributing to a smoother, more velvety mouthfeel. It helps prevent fat separation and ice crystal growth, maintaining the ice cream's structure and flavor during freezing and thawing. 

> ⚠️ While generally safe, individuals with soy allergies should be aware of potential reactions.

Soy lecithin is often extracted using chemical solvents, which makes it a UPF, and it might come from GMO sources.

## Dairy & Milk Alternatives
### Almond Milk & Butter
Almond milk is a dairy-free and vegan-friendly option for ice cream bases,
just like Coconot milk but with less flavor impact and way lower fat content.
Almond butter can be used to make it more similar to coconut milk,
especially as a replacement when you don't like coconut.

For creaminess, you can combine almond milk with ingredients like
almond butter, bananas, dates, cashews, and hemp hearts.

Always check for ingredients other than almonds and water,
especially thickeners, emulsifers, and stabilizers.

### Coconut Milk
Coconut milk can be used for delicious and creamy bases,
especially for dairy-free or vegan options.
It provides a rich, tropical flavor and a creamy texture.

Coconut milk typically has a high fat content,
particularly saturated fat (anywhere from 60–93% of total fat),
but also incudes medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs).
The exact amount can vary based on the specific product and the country it's from.
That is why in recipes the expected percentage should always be included explicitly.

*Full fat* ranges from 14% to 29% (and even higher in coconut cream),
while *reduced fat* products typically have 7% to 17%.

Besides fat content, always check for ingredients other than coconut and water,
especially thickeners, emulsifers, and stabilizers.
In your recipes, make sure to prevent separation of fatty and watery phases
by adding enough emulsifiers.

### Skim Milk
Skim milk or nonfat milk has a reduced fat content compared to whole milk.
Typically it has less than 0.5%; in Germany it is 0.1% to 0.3%,
but *low-fat* milk is more common with a fat content of 1.5%.
It's best to state the expected fat content in a recipe,
because terms like "skim", "full fat", and "double" can be interpreted differently over the world.

When skim milk is used, there will be trade-offs in texture, flavor, and quality
compared to ice cream made with whole milk or cream.
These can and should be compensated, e.g. by adding inulin and increased suppression of ice crystal formation.

The benefits are lower fat and calories, and reduced cholesterol.

### Skim Milk Powder (SMP)
SMP plays a crucial role in ice cream production, primarily due to its ability to increase the MSNF content, which affects the texture, structure, and freezing point of the final product.

Its major effects are:

 * Reducing the amount of "free water", preventing ice crystal formation.
 * Improving the structure and body of the ice cream, making it less watery and more stable.
 * Helping to emulsify the ice cream mix, via its contained milk proteins.
 * Lowering the freezing point via contained lactose.
 * Ensuring a uniform mixing of ingredients, leading to a more consistent ice cream flavor and texture.

SMP is convenient to use because it can be stored at room temperature and rehydrated with water.

### Whey Protein
Whey protein primarily functions as a water-binding agent, contributing to viscosity, stability, and texture. It helps to maintain small ice crystals avoiding grittiness (by limiting water mobility and ice crystal growth), and increases your protein intake.

By limiting water-ice-water transitions, whey proteins help to improve the freeze/thaw stability of ice cream, which also avoids a big quality degradation during long-term storage in the freezer.

## Miscellaneous
### Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate)
Baking soda is not a typical ingredient in ice cream recipes.
When used, it is to improve texture and maintain a neutral pH.
It has about 67% of the sodium of table salt, and you can add up to 0.6% to a base.

It can make the texture softer and creamier, potentially due to the formation of small cavities from CO₂ bubbles that weaken the bonding between ice crystals and other ingredients.

Milk solids, cream, and stabilizers are more commonly used to achieve desired textures. 

### Sodium Alginate
Improves texture, forms matrix with casein, increases elasticity. Up to 1g per 720g.

Commit message:

add Alcohol (Ethanol) to ingredients

docs/info/ingredients.md, after:

# Ingredients

Here you can find some background information about common ingredients in ice cream recipes.

## Freezing Point Depression Factors

Freezing point depression factor (FPDF) of common ingredients:

 * Sucrose (1:1 glucose:fructose) / Lactose / Polydextrose 1.0
 * Ethanol 7.4 (40vol% booze 2.96)
 * Salt (sodium chloride, NaCl) 5.9
 * Vegetable glycerin 3.7 (sweetness=60%; GI=5)
 * Erythritol 2.8
 * Xylitol 2.2
 * Allulose / Fructose / Dextrose / Invert sugar / Sorbitol / Honey 1.9
 * Agave Syrup 1.8
 * Glucose Syrup (42 DE) 1.29
 * MC corn starch 0.5
 * Glucose Syrup (28 DE) 0.5
 * Maltodextrin (18 DE)	0.34 (other sources: 1.29)
 * Inulin 0.1 (other sources: 0.25)

 Ultra-sweet fluids (sucralose, stevia/steviol, monk fruit) have no effect
 on the freezing point, since they lack the necessary mass.
 If in powdered form, make sure the bulking agent has no effect
 – quite often erythritol is used since it adds no calories.


## Sweeteners

### Allulose

Using it as a single sweetener in ice cream results in a poor texture,
only use in combination with e.g. erythritol.

### Erythritol (E968)

Sugar alcohol with a cooling mouth-feel and about 75% as sweet as sugar (add ⅓ when swapping). Erythritol is non-caloric.

Erythritol lowers the freezing point of water drastically (2.8x compared to sugar).

It has a strong tendency to crystallise in long-term frozen state (weeks), leading to a hard texture. This can be alleviated by adding at least 0.05% of a stabilizer, and staying below 8% of total weight.
Mixing with at least 40% of xylitol has the same effect.

*Dosage:* 6.5-8% of an ice cream base.

### Inulin

Inulin is a naturally occurring polysaccharide, and used to improve mouthfeel, stability, acceptability of low-fat ice creams, and forms a gel-like network that binds water.

Inulin has fewer calories (2 kcal/g) compared to fat (9 kcal/g) or sucrose (4 kcal/g).

Fat can be reduced by 50% with 5% native inulin — i.e. up to 35g in a Deluxe tub. It improves creaminess perception and melting resistance. Typically 10-20g in a 720g mix is enough.

RDA is 8-18g (tested for up to 24 weeks). Most common side effects include gas, bloating, diarrhea, constipation, and cramps. As a fructan, inulin has minimal impact on increasing blood sugar.

Natural chicory / agave inulin has 8g sugar, and 88% fiber. Further processing leads to HP inulin that has 97% fiber and 0% sugar, and it needs to be heated to 65°C to dissolve.

> <sup>*Source:* https://www.icecreamscience.com/blog/why-is-inulin-used-in-ice-cream</sup>

### Stevia (E960)

Stevia is a natural, calorie-free sweetener derived from the leaves of the *Stevia rebaudiana* plant, native to South America. The leaves contain compounds called steviol glycosides, which are significantly sweeter than sugar (around 200-400 times sweeter).

Many people find stevia to have a slightly bitter or licorice aftertaste.

In ice cream, stevia in its pure form (as a liquid) makes it simple to dial in the sweetness of a base without influencing its texture and PAC value.

### Sucralose (E955)

Sucralose is a non-caloric artificial sweetener that is about 600 times sweeter than table sugar.
It is derived from sucrose through a chemical process.
Sucralose is commonly known by the brand name Splenda.

Like stevia, when used in liquid form, it makes it simple to dial in the sweetness of a base without influencing its texture and PAC value.

### Vegetable Glycerin / Glycerol (VG / E422)

Glycerin, also known as glycerol or E422, is widely used in ice cream to reduce the hardness of the frozen base.
It is a sugar alcohol and has one of the highest freezing point depression factors, at 3.7 compared to table sugar.

It is a clear, odorless, and sweet-tasting liquid with a syrupy consistency.

*Vegetable* glycerin is typically made from plant oils like soybean, coconut, or palm oil.
It has 60% the sweetness of table sugar, and is hygroscopic.
Shelf life of glycerin is 24 months when stored below 100°F in a closed container.

*Dosage:*  Add 5-15g to a 720g mix.

Glycerin serves several key purposes in ice cream:

 * *Anti-freeze and Anti-crystallization:* This is its primary function. Glycerin helps to prevent the formation of large, hard ice crystals, which can make ice cream feel icy and less creamy. By lowering the freezing point of water and retaining moisture, it ensures a smoother, more scoopable texture, even at very low freezer temperatures. This is particularly beneficial for homemade ice cream, or for ice creams that are refrozen.
 * *Humectant:* It acts as a humectant, meaning it helps to retain moisture. This contributes to the overall texture and prevents the ice cream from drying out or becoming too hard.
 * *Emulsifier:* Glycerin can help oil and water-based ingredients mix more effectively, improving the stability and consistency of the ice cream.
 * *Sweetener:* While it has a mild sweetness (about 60-75% as sweet as sugar), its sweetening power in the small amounts used in ice cream is often negligible compared to its other functional benefits. It's also considered a sugar substitute with a lower glycemic index.


### Xylitol (E967)

Sugar alcohol which is as sweet as sugar at 236 kcal (sugar: 405 kcal).
It has a low glycemic index, so only count 35-40% for net carbs.

Xylit has no daily intake limits defined, but consuming smaller amounts
of 5-10g over a day is recommended, due to the effects on the digestive system.


## Thickeners

[Thickeners (E4xx group)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_number#E400%E2%80%93E499)
are texturizing agents and natural hydrocolloids to stabilize, thicken, gelify, emulsify, or bind liquids (water).

Most thickeners are hydrocolloids, which are hydrophilic molecules that have a high molecular weight. They are used as functional ingredients in food formulation for increasing food consistency, improving gelling effect, and controlling the microstructure, texture, flavor, and shelf life.

Many thickeners also have an emulsifying effect.

Using only a singular thickener means you often miss out on synergistic effects of a combination of several thickeners, e.g. forming specific kinds of gels (SIGs).

 * Use guar/tara in combination with xanthan, ratio `4TG:1XG` or `3GG:1XG`.
 * Guar gum and LBG is also a good combination (`3GG:2LBG`).
 * Similarly, CMC and GMS should always go together, and can be combined with GG. Use 0.2–0.5% of the mix for each, the exact ratios depend on the make-up of your mix, and targets like creaminess, resistance to melting, and mouthfeel. Start on the lower ends, and adjust until you hit your targets.
 * Another complementary combination is guar (0.1–0.3%), CMC / tylo (0.1–0.3%), and gum arabic (0.1–0.5%). Again, start on the lower ends, and adjust until you hit your desired targets. A Deluxe tub dosage would be 2g+2g (GG:CMC) vs. 1.25+1.25+1.5g (GG:CMC:GA).

 Blends recommended by `under-belly.org` (dosage generally 0.15% of total weight):

  * *Gelatin + XG*: Use a 3:1 ratio, 1g+⅓g / 1kg.
  * *LBG + GG + λC* (general purpose): 4:2:1, 0.8g+0.4g+0.2g / 1kg (0.25% of water weight); has to be heated to >80°C for full LBG hydration.
  * *Soy Lecithin + LBG + GG + λC* (eggless): 4:4:2:1, 1g+1g+0.5g+0.25g / 1kg (0.4% of water weight); has to be heated to >80°C for full LBG hydration.
  * *CMC + GG + λC* (sorbet): 2:1:1, 2g+1g+1g / 1kg (0.5% of water weight); no cooking; add 1g lecithin when you have fatty ingredients (nut butter, melted chocolate, ...).

### Acacia Gum (Gum Arabic / E414)
Gum arabic is a complex mixture of glycoproteins and polysaccharides, predominantly polymers of arabinose and galactose. It is soluble in water.

### Agar-Agar (E406)
Agar-Agar is a natural, plant-based gelling and thickening agent (hydrocolloid), derived from red algae. It's commonly used as a vegan alternative to gelatin, since it is also tasteless and odorless; its gelling power is higher. It is heat-stable and acid-stable, and resulting gels tend to be brittle.

 * Hydration: simmer for 3…5min at 100°C.
 * LBG / Agar mix: 0.25% LBG + 0.2% agar / for juice noodles: 0.33% each / *replace* 5% … 15% of agar.
 * For a gel: 0.2% soft gels / 3.0% firm gels.
 * For a fluid gel: 0.5% to 2.0% / fluid gels are made by blending the already set gel.
 * For foam: 0.3% to 1.0% for light foams and 1.0% to 2.0% for denser foams.

> <sup>*Source:* https://www.amazingfoodmadeeasy.com/info/modernist-ingredients/more/agar-agar</sup>

### Carrageenans (E407)
[Carrageenans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carrageenan) are a family of natural polysaccharides derived from red seaweed (*Irish Moss*), and used as a thickening, emulsifying, and stabilizing agent. They improve texture and prevent ice crystal formation, and are often added to plant-based milks.

Different types of carrageenan exist, each with slightly different properties, including κ-carrageenan, ι-carrageenan, and λ-carrageenan. 

 * *Kappa* forms strong, rigid gels in the presence of potassium ions, and reacts with dairy proteins.
 * *Iota* forms soft gels in the presence of calcium ions.
 * *Lambda* does not gel, and is used to thicken dairy products.

Alternative natural thickeners include xanthan, guar/tara/carob gum, and pectin. Synergies exist, especially with LBG.

*Safety:* Carrageenans are considered GRAS by the FDA, and an EFSA re-evaluation concluded that they are not absorbed intact, and there is no concern with respect to carcinogenicity or genotoxicity. EFSA sees the need to obtain further data though, to address identified gaps.

### Carboxymethyl Cellulose (CMC / E466)

CMC is used to stabilize and improve the texture of ice cream. It's a thickening agent and emulsifier that helps prevent ice crystals from forming, resulting in a smoother, more scoopable ice cream. It can also improve the ice cream's resistance to melting, keeping it firmer for longer.

Combine it with GMS (emulsifier), in a 7:1 to 4:1 ratio (up to 1% of water content; typically 0.3% GMS and 0.05–0.15% CMC).

*Also know as:* cellulose gum / Tylo / Tylose / Blütenpuder.

### Guar Gum (E412)

Guar gum is a binding agent which combines favorably with LBG or XG. If combined with XG, use a `3GG:1XG` ratio. If replacing XG, use 3 parts GG for 2 parts of XG (3:2 ratio).

For hydration, heat it to 80°C, or let it soak for a few minutes. Guar gum can withstand 80°C for a few minutes, beyond that point it degrades and looses effectiveness.

*Dosage:* Use 0.1% … 0.3% in ice cream (max. 1.5%). It creates a creamy mouth feel, and can replace milk or cream powder. Tara gum can replace guar gum.


### Locust Bean Gum (LBG / E410)

LBG is a vegetable-based hydrocolloid extracted from the seeds of the carob tree.
It's a galactomannan polysaccharide, meaning it's made up of sugar molecules (galactose and mannose).

It serves as a thickening agent, stabilizer, and emulsifier.
LBG has a high viscosity, transparency and brightness.
It is synergistic when combined with other hydrocolloids to increase their gelling properties.

 * *Dosage:* 0.15% … 0.75% of liquid (combined with other ingredients)

   * 0.4% for desserts
   * Prevents boil-over of pie fruit filling (0.1…0.3%)

 * Fully hydrated at 90°C, gels at about 85°C.
 * Combine with xanthan for a cold gel.
 * Combine with agar to get a less brittle / more elastic gel.
 * Stabilizes ice cream, combined with guar and/or CMC.

*Also know as:* carob / Johannisbrotkernmehl.

### Tara Gum (E417)
Tara can replace guar 1:1 in recipes and will give you slightly better results, on average. It creates a creamier, richer mouth feel than guar gum.

*Dosage:* 0.05-0.15% for ice cream, sorbet and sherbet.

### Xanthan Gum (XG / E415)
[Xanthan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xanthan_gum) works at room temperature. To easily mix it with water, dissolve in some oil or mix with other dry ingredients first. For liquids, always use a blender or immersion blender.

Combine it with LBG for a cold gel. At certain ratios, like 7:3 LBG to XG, the synergistic effect is maximized, resulting in a harder gel. Heating can facilitate the formation of the gel network.

## Emulsifiers

### Glycerol Monostearate (GMS / E471)
Glycerol Monostearate (GMS) is an emulsifier, and also a thickening and anti-caking agent. In ice cream, it adds body and helps to create a smooth texture (by reducing ice crystal formation), and prevents it from drying out or being too sweet.
It's most often used in egg-less ice cream bases, and in combination with CMC.

GMS takes the form of a white, odorless, and sweet-tasting flaky powder that is hygroscopic.
It's the result of a chemical reaction of glycerol with stearic acid,
both typically refined from plant or animal sources.

Due to its low HLB value of around 3.8–5.4, to incorporate GMS into a water-based solution,
it can be first mixed with oil and then blended into the water phase (similar to xanthan).

GMS is typically used at concentrations of 0.1% to 0.5% of the total mix.
When used with CMC, typical ratios go from 2:1 to 7:1 (GMS:CMC).

### Soy Lecithin (E322)
Soy lecithin is an emulsifier gained from soy beans, and used in ice cream to improve texture and stability.

Lecithin reduces the surface tension between fat and water, contributing to a smoother, more velvety mouthfeel. It helps prevent fat separation and ice crystal growth, maintaining the ice cream's structure and flavor during freezing and thawing. 

> ⚠️ While generally safe, individuals with soy allergies should be aware of potential reactions.

Soy lecithin is often extracted using chemical solvents, which makes it a UPF, and it might come from GMO sources.

## Dairy & Milk Alternatives
### Almond Milk & Butter
Almond milk is a dairy-free and vegan-friendly option for ice cream bases,
just like Coconot milk but with less flavor impact and way lower fat content.
Almond butter can be used to make it more similar to coconut milk,
especially as a replacement when you don't like coconut.

For creaminess, you can combine almond milk with ingredients like
almond butter, bananas, dates, cashews, and hemp hearts.

Always check for ingredients other than almonds and water,
especially thickeners, emulsifers, and stabilizers.

### Coconut Milk
Coconut milk can be used for delicious and creamy bases,
especially for dairy-free or vegan options.
It provides a rich, tropical flavor and a creamy texture.

Coconut milk typically has a high fat content,
particularly saturated fat (anywhere from 60–93% of total fat),
but also incudes medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs).
The exact amount can vary based on the specific product and the country it's from.
That is why in recipes the expected percentage should always be included explicitly.

*Full fat* ranges from 14% to 29% (and even higher in coconut cream),
while *reduced fat* products typically have 7% to 17%.

Besides fat content, always check for ingredients other than coconut and water,
especially thickeners, emulsifers, and stabilizers.
In your recipes, make sure to prevent separation of fatty and watery phases
by adding enough emulsifiers.

### Skim Milk
Skim milk or nonfat milk has a reduced fat content compared to whole milk.
Typically it has less than 0.5%; in Germany it is 0.1% to 0.3%,
but *low-fat* milk is more common with a fat content of 1.5%.
It's best to state the expected fat content in a recipe,
because terms like "skim", "full fat", and "double" can be interpreted differently over the world.

When skim milk is used, there will be trade-offs in texture, flavor, and quality
compared to ice cream made with whole milk or cream.
These can and should be compensated, e.g. by adding inulin and increased suppression of ice crystal formation.

The benefits are lower fat and calories, and reduced cholesterol.

### Skim Milk Powder (SMP)
SMP plays a crucial role in ice cream production, primarily due to its ability to increase the MSNF content, which affects the texture, structure, and freezing point of the final product.

Its major effects are:

 * Reducing the amount of "free water", preventing ice crystal formation.
 * Improving the structure and body of the ice cream, making it less watery and more stable.
 * Helping to emulsify the ice cream mix, via its contained milk proteins.
 * Lowering the freezing point via contained lactose.
 * Ensuring a uniform mixing of ingredients, leading to a more consistent ice cream flavor and texture.

SMP is convenient to use because it can be stored at room temperature and rehydrated with water.

### Whey Protein
Whey protein primarily functions as a water-binding agent, contributing to viscosity, stability, and texture. It helps to maintain small ice crystals avoiding grittiness (by limiting water mobility and ice crystal growth), and increases your protein intake.

By limiting water-ice-water transitions, whey proteins help to improve the freeze/thaw stability of ice cream, which also avoids a big quality degradation during long-term storage in the freezer.

## Miscellaneous
### Alcohol (Ethanol)
Alcohol can enhance or provide flavor,
and it also affects the freezing point,
potentially making the ice cream softer and more prone to melting.
The PAC of pure ethanol is 7.4, and 2.96 for 40 vol% booze.

A small amount (1-2 tbsp of a spirit) can add a subtle flavor,
while more (3-4 tbsp) can create a noticeable kick.
Liqueurs and fortified wines can be added in larger quantities
without significantly affecting the freezing point, up to a point.

A good rule of thumb is to never add more than 200g of 40% (80 proof) alcohol
in 1kg base (i.e. max. 20%), leading to roughly 8 vol% in total.
This is good if you are looking to make a boozy ice cream,
as you will get plenty of flavor and still have
a scoopable texture at around -18°C / 0°F.
*Always* use an ice cream calculator in such cases though.

### Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate)
Baking soda is not a typical ingredient in ice cream recipes.
When used, it is to improve texture and maintain a neutral pH.
It has about 67% of the sodium of table salt, and you can add up to 0.6% to a base.

It can make the texture softer and creamier, potentially due to the formation of small cavities from CO₂ bubbles that weaken the bonding between ice crystals and other ingredients.

Milk solids, cream, and stabilizers are more commonly used to achieve desired textures. 

### Sodium Alginate
Improves texture, forms matrix with casein, increases elasticity. Up to 1g per 720g.
