docs/info/web-resources.md, before:

# Resources on the Web<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=160 alt="Logo" src="/ice-creamery/info/logo-web.webp" />

Here is a list of well-known web sites and other resources like YouTube channels found on the internet.

➡️ Also see the link list at the top of the [Glossary](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/) page.

## Resource Collections
Lists just like this one.

- [Sites I like — Dream Scoops](https://www.dreamscoops.com/about-me/sites-i-like/)

## Web Sites

- [Underbelly](https://under-belly.org/category/ice-cream/) promises to make ideas edible, chemistry bingeable, and simple food complicated. My kind of game.
- [Dream Scoops](https://www.dreamscoops.com/home/) is always looking for the perfect ice cream, the "dream scoop." A documentation of findings, successes, and failures, with lots of background information.
- [Ice Cream Nation](https://www.icecreamnation.org/ice-cream-nation/) is devoted to ice cream and related frozen desserts in all its fascinating forms and variations. A main objective is to encourage, promote and share information on the making of home-made ice cream.
- [if the spoon fits – an ice cream blog](https://ifthespoonfits.com/): Be a kid again. Just don’t skimp; because if the spoon fits, there’s not enough ice cream in your bowl!
- [r/ninjacreami Wiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/ninjacreami/wiki/index/) — Your guide to ice cream making.
- [Scoop Club](https://www.scoopclub.com.au/) — Ice cream recipes and appliance reviews.
- [Popular Posts on Ice Cream Science](https://www.icecreamscience.com/popular-posts)

## Recipe Collections

- [My Recipe Posts on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/search/?q=author%3Aj_hermann+cream) — Most of them, anyway.
- [Ninja CREAMi Test Kitchen](https://ninjatestkitchen.com/collection/ninja-creami-creations/) — Recipes beyond those in the manual.
- [The Frozen Dessert Spreadsheet of Doom](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fKilMlLa5IFT_kN1hVjlRWHdJ2v2NX5uGIxxYqJA_pQ/edit?usp=sharing) ([download](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRZdPU8V-8mM_KfvP5zElajPmhv-VhDe3q5phOGkhz3oYtbALSDIDKs_gW73vdP3EGkVBmq1dxITTsg/pub?output=xlsx))
- [Ninja Creami at Samsung Food](https://s.samsungfood.com/eWWyY) — Make ice cream, smoothie bowls, milkshakes, and more using the Ninja Creami.
- [proteinninja on RecipeSage](https://recipesage.com/#/people/@proteinninja) — Protein-Ninja.com's shared recipes.

## Forums

- [r/ninjacreami](https://www.reddit.com/r/ninjacreami/) — Let's share our experiences, recipes, fails, and experience using the Ninja Creami.
- [r/icecreamery](https://www.reddit.com/r/icecreamery/) — You scream, I scream, we all scream for ICE CREAM!
- [Stack Exchange on Cooking](https://cooking.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/ice-cream) — Newest 'ice-cream' questions.

## Video Channels

- [Polar Ice Creamery](https://www.youtube.com/c/PolarIceCreamery) — Science-based ice cream making, for classic ice cream machines as well as the Creami.
- [Odd Scoops](https://www.youtube.com/@OddScoops) — Where ice cream gets weird! Also see [r/cursedcreamis](https://www.reddit.com/r/cursedcreamis/) if you're a fan.

**Noteworthy Videos**

- 🎦 [Gelato Masterclass: Make the best Italian ice cream at home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eH1wuQg4h4Y)

## Ice Cream Calculators
I use my spreadsheet, so this is a "what I found on the web" list, without any preferences attached.

- [Dream Scoops](https://www.dreamscoops.com/ice-cream-science/ice-cream-calculator/) — Meant to be a relatively simple tool for home cooks.

    - 🎦 [Ice Cream Calculator • Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yx9QH_BMW2Q) (from "Polar Ice Creamery")

- [Calculate Ice Cream](https://calculateicecream.com/) — Online recipe creation software.
- [Scoopulator](https://www.scoopulator.app/calc) — A web-based and approachable ice cream calculator & ingredient database.
- [IceCreamCalc](https://icecreamcalc.com/) – Ice cream recipe and balancing software.

    - [icecreamcalc.app](https://www.icecreamcalc.app/) – Web version of the desktop app, with mostly the same features.

- [Ice Cream Science — Home Cook's Spreadsheet](https://www.icecreamscience.com/blog/calculate-ice-cream-mix) — How to calculate an ice cream mix.
- [Omni Perfect Ice Cream Calculator](https://www.omnicalculator.com/food/ice-cream)
- [Ice Solution](https://icesolution.app/)

## Nutritional Databases

- [Frida](https://frida.fooddata.dk/?lang=en) — Food data published by DTU Food (National Food Institute, Technical University of Denmark). You can download Frida as a spreadsheet for free.
- [Open Food Facts](https://world.openfoodfacts.org/discover) — The free food products database (also has an app).

    - [de.openfoodfacts.org](https://de.openfoodfacts.org/) — The German version.

- [USDA FoodData Central](https://fdc.nal.usda.gov/) — As long as you-know-who does not destroy it.
- [Eat This Much — Browse Foods](https://www.eatthismuch.com/food/browse)
- [FDDB](https://fddb.info/db/en/index.html) — Calorie table, food diary, food database.
- [alko.fi](https://www.alko.fi/en/food-and-drinks) — Web shop that allows to search and browse for alcoholic products, and provides ABV, energy, and sugar content values (the latter are often hard to find).

Commit message:

add 'Best Ice Cream Books' video

docs/info/web-resources.md, after:

# Resources on the Web<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=160 alt="Logo" src="/ice-creamery/info/logo-web.webp" />

Here is a list of well-known web sites and other resources like YouTube channels found on the internet.

➡️ Also see the link list at the top of the [Glossary](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/) page.

## Resource Collections
Lists just like this one.

- [Sites I like — Dream Scoops](https://www.dreamscoops.com/about-me/sites-i-like/)

## Web Sites

- [Underbelly](https://under-belly.org/category/ice-cream/) promises to make ideas edible, chemistry bingeable, and simple food complicated. My kind of game.
- [Dream Scoops](https://www.dreamscoops.com/home/) is always looking for the perfect ice cream, the "dream scoop." A documentation of findings, successes, and failures, with lots of background information.
- [Ice Cream Nation](https://www.icecreamnation.org/ice-cream-nation/) is devoted to ice cream and related frozen desserts in all its fascinating forms and variations. A main objective is to encourage, promote and share information on the making of home-made ice cream.
- [if the spoon fits – an ice cream blog](https://ifthespoonfits.com/): Be a kid again. Just don’t skimp; because if the spoon fits, there’s not enough ice cream in your bowl!
- [r/ninjacreami Wiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/ninjacreami/wiki/index/) — Your guide to ice cream making.
- [Scoop Club](https://www.scoopclub.com.au/) — Ice cream recipes and appliance reviews.
- [Popular Posts on Ice Cream Science](https://www.icecreamscience.com/popular-posts)

## Recipe Collections

- [My Recipe Posts on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/search/?q=author%3Aj_hermann+cream) — Most of them, anyway.
- [Ninja CREAMi Test Kitchen](https://ninjatestkitchen.com/collection/ninja-creami-creations/) — Recipes beyond those in the manual.
- [The Frozen Dessert Spreadsheet of Doom](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fKilMlLa5IFT_kN1hVjlRWHdJ2v2NX5uGIxxYqJA_pQ/edit?usp=sharing) ([download](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRZdPU8V-8mM_KfvP5zElajPmhv-VhDe3q5phOGkhz3oYtbALSDIDKs_gW73vdP3EGkVBmq1dxITTsg/pub?output=xlsx))
- [Ninja Creami at Samsung Food](https://s.samsungfood.com/eWWyY) — Make ice cream, smoothie bowls, milkshakes, and more using the Ninja Creami.
- [proteinninja on RecipeSage](https://recipesage.com/#/people/@proteinninja) — Protein-Ninja.com's shared recipes.

## Forums

- [r/ninjacreami](https://www.reddit.com/r/ninjacreami/) — Let's share our experiences, recipes, fails, and experience using the Ninja Creami.
- [r/icecreamery](https://www.reddit.com/r/icecreamery/) — You scream, I scream, we all scream for ICE CREAM!
- [Stack Exchange on Cooking](https://cooking.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/ice-cream) — Newest 'ice-cream' questions.

## Video Channels

- [Polar Ice Creamery](https://www.youtube.com/c/PolarIceCreamery) — Science-based ice cream making, for classic ice cream machines as well as the Creami.
- [Odd Scoops](https://www.youtube.com/@OddScoops) — Where ice cream gets weird! Also see [r/cursedcreamis](https://www.reddit.com/r/cursedcreamis/) if you're a fan.

**Noteworthy Videos**

- 🎦 [The Best Ice Cream Books for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OCewlsUmKKU) by *Polar Ice Creamery*
- 🎦 [Gelato Masterclass: Make the best Italian ice cream at home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eH1wuQg4h4Y)

## Ice Cream Calculators
I use my spreadsheet, so this is a "what I found on the web" list, without any preferences attached.

- [Dream Scoops](https://www.dreamscoops.com/ice-cream-science/ice-cream-calculator/) — Meant to be a relatively simple tool for home cooks.

    - 🎦 [Ice Cream Calculator • Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yx9QH_BMW2Q) (from "Polar Ice Creamery")

- [Calculate Ice Cream](https://calculateicecream.com/) — Online recipe creation software.
- [Scoopulator](https://www.scoopulator.app/calc) — A web-based and approachable ice cream calculator & ingredient database.
- [IceCreamCalc](https://icecreamcalc.com/) – Ice cream recipe and balancing software.

    - [icecreamcalc.app](https://www.icecreamcalc.app/) – Web version of the desktop app, with mostly the same features.

- [Ice Cream Science — Home Cook's Spreadsheet](https://www.icecreamscience.com/blog/calculate-ice-cream-mix) — How to calculate an ice cream mix.
- [Omni Perfect Ice Cream Calculator](https://www.omnicalculator.com/food/ice-cream)
- [Ice Solution](https://icesolution.app/)

## Nutritional Databases

- [Frida](https://frida.fooddata.dk/?lang=en) — Food data published by DTU Food (National Food Institute, Technical University of Denmark). You can download Frida as a spreadsheet for free.
- [Open Food Facts](https://world.openfoodfacts.org/discover) — The free food products database (also has an app).

    - [de.openfoodfacts.org](https://de.openfoodfacts.org/) — The German version.

- [USDA FoodData Central](https://fdc.nal.usda.gov/) — As long as you-know-who does not destroy it.
- [Eat This Much — Browse Foods](https://www.eatthismuch.com/food/browse)
- [FDDB](https://fddb.info/db/en/index.html) — Calorie table, food diary, food database.
- [alko.fi](https://www.alko.fi/en/food-and-drinks) — Web shop that allows to search and browse for alcoholic products, and provides ABV, energy, and sugar content values (the latter are often hard to find).
