recipes/Cherry Ice Cream (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Favorite
- Fruit
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Cherry Ice Cream (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="cherry-bliss.png" />

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="cherry_2024-10-23.jpg" class="zoomable" />

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _350ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _175g_ Cherries
  - _50g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _20g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _25g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _25g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _20g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored

**Fill to MAX**

  - _45ml_ Water to MAX line
  - _3–5 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 83.3 kcal; fat 2.4g; carbs 13.5g; sugar 2.7g; protein 4.6g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 299.7 kcal; fat 8.6g; carbs 48.7g; sugar 9.6g; protein 16.4g; salt 0.8g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 599.5 kcal; fat 17.2g; carbs 97.3g; sugar 19.2g; protein 32.8g; salt 1.6g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.43
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.90% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 23.4g • 3.3%
- **Net carbs:** 39.6g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.9g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 13.2g
- **Jun 21, 2025:** Switched to soy milk and protein
- **25g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 11.5g Erythritol (E968) • 11.5g Inulin • 1.1g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.4g Salt • 0.11g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

add Vegan Option and Rating

recipes/Cherry Ice Cream (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Favorite
- Fruit
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Cherry Ice Cream (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="cherry-bliss.png" />

> 🌿 **Vegan Option**<br />Replace the cream cheese with 50g tofu and 10ml water, blended to a creamy paste.

Rating: 😋😋🍒🍒🍒

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="cherry_2024-10-23.jpg" class="zoomable" />

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _350ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _175g_ Cherries
  - _50g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _20g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _25g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7
  - _25g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _20g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored

**Fill to MAX**

  - _45ml_ Water to MAX line
  - _3–5 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 83.3 kcal; fat 2.4g; carbs 13.5g; sugar 2.7g; protein 4.6g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 299.7 kcal; fat 8.6g; carbs 48.7g; sugar 9.6g; protein 16.4g; salt 0.8g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 599.5 kcal; fat 17.2g; carbs 97.3g; sugar 19.2g; protein 32.8g; salt 1.6g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.43
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.90% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 23.4g • 3.3%
- **Net carbs:** 39.6g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.9g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 13.2g
- **Jun 21, 2025:** Switched to soy milk and protein
- **25g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 11.5g Erythritol (E968) • 11.5g Inulin • 1.1g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.4g Guar gum (E412) • 0.4g Salt • 0.11g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
