docs/index.md, before:

# About
A collection of my Ninja Creami recipes; the goal is to have only tested / approved ones,
but on the way there [draft](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/tags/#tag:draft) and
[promising](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/tags/#tag:promising) recipes
are tagged as such.
Most recipes are formulated so that they also work in a classic churning machine.

It currently has `{{ path(config.docs_dir).glob('?/*.md') | list | length }}` recipes.

> <img width=720 alt="Gelato Cart" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/gelato-cart.webp" />

🗓️ Last changed *{{ git.date_ISO | rchop(14) }}* by *{{ git.author }}*

> [{{ git.short_commit }}](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/commit/{{ git.short_commit }}){target="_blank"} `{{ git.message | truncate(50) }}`

## How to Use This Site?
Use the top bar to navigate using [Tags](tags/) or the first letter of a recipe name.

> 💡 You can load the <a href="/ice-creamery/print_page/" target="_blank">All You Can Read<sup>↗</sup></a>
> version to save the site as a stand-alone HTML or PDF document, to read off-line.

Check out the [Info](info/) section to get background information on the 'philosophy'
behind the specific formulation of these recipes, the ingredients used, and some tips & tricks
to successfully reproduce them in your kitchen.

That section also contains a FAQ page and a glossary, in case some abbreviations used are unknown to you.

> <span id="audio">🗣️</span> Another way to explore background topics is to listen to this ~18min long interview-style summary of the site.
> 
> <audio controls><source src="https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/raw/refs/heads/main/assets/audio/interview-style-tour-of-the-site-96k.mp3" type="audio/mpeg" /></audio>
> 
> If your browser does not support the audio element, try to [download](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/raw/refs/heads/main/assets/audio/interview-style-tour-of-the-site-96k.mp3) the MP3 file.

## How It's Made?
This website is based on a collection of calculated recipes stored in a
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery#readme).

```embed
url: https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery#readme
```

The recipes are written as [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/download/download-libreoffice/)
spreadsheets, which allows to directly use formulas for the calculation of
important ice cream metrics and nutritional information.

```embed
url: https://www.libreoffice.org/
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/libre-office-logo.png
favicon: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/libre-office-favicon.ico
```

A Python script then converts CSV exports of the spreadsheets to markdown files, which are in turn used to render this HTML web site using
[MkDocs](https://github.com/mkdocs/mkdocs#readme).

```embed
url: https://www.mkdocs.org/
```

<!--
{ macros_info() }}
{ context(git) | pretty }}
-->

Commit message:

mention manually created info pages in the publishing process

docs/index.md, after:

# About
A collection of my Ninja Creami recipes; the goal is to have only tested / approved ones,
but on the way there [draft](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/tags/#tag:draft) and
[promising](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/tags/#tag:promising) recipes
are tagged as such.
Most recipes are formulated so that they also work in a classic churning machine.

It currently has `{{ path(config.docs_dir).glob('?/*.md') | list | length }}` recipes.

> <img width=720 alt="Gelato Cart" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/gelato-cart.webp" />

🗓️ Last changed *{{ git.date_ISO | rchop(14) }}* by *{{ git.author }}*

> [{{ git.short_commit }}](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/commit/{{ git.short_commit }}){target="_blank"} `{{ git.message | truncate(50) }}`

## How to Use This Site?
Use the top bar to navigate using [Tags](tags/) or the first letter of a recipe name.

> 💡 You can load the <a href="/ice-creamery/print_page/" target="_blank">All You Can Read<sup>↗</sup></a>
> version to save the site as a stand-alone HTML or PDF document, to read off-line.

Check out the [Info](info/) section to get background information on the 'philosophy'
behind the specific formulation of these recipes, the ingredients used, and some tips & tricks
to successfully reproduce them in your kitchen.

That section also contains a FAQ page and a glossary, in case some abbreviations used are unknown to you.

> <span id="audio">🗣️</span> Another way to explore background topics is to listen to this ~18min long interview-style summary of the site.
> 
> <audio controls><source src="https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/raw/refs/heads/main/assets/audio/interview-style-tour-of-the-site-96k.mp3" type="audio/mpeg" /></audio>
> 
> If your browser does not support the audio element, try to [download](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/raw/refs/heads/main/assets/audio/interview-style-tour-of-the-site-96k.mp3) the MP3 file.

## How It's Made?
This website is based on a collection of calculated recipes stored in a
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery#readme).

```embed
url: https://github.com/jhermann/ice-creamery#readme
```

The recipes are written as [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/download/download-libreoffice/)
spreadsheets, which allows to directly use formulas for the calculation of
important ice cream metrics and nutritional information.

```embed
url: https://www.libreoffice.org/
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/libre-office-logo.png
favicon: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/libre-office-favicon.ico
```

A Python script then converts CSV exports of the spreadsheets to markdown files, which are combined with manually created informational pages (like the one you're reading right now), and finally used to render this HTML web site using
[MkDocs](https://github.com/mkdocs/mkdocs#readme).

```embed
url: https://www.mkdocs.org/
```

<!--
{ macros_info() }}
{ context(git) | pretty }}
-->
