recipes/Pineapple Sorbet (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Low-Fat
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sorbet
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Pineapple Sorbet (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="pineapple_sherbet-ice-cream-logo.png" />

> 🌿 For the vegan option, replace the cottage cheese with 100ml coconut milk (adds 20kcal),
 > or else 5g of almond butter and 150ml of either soy or almond milk.

Processed on Sorbet, with a re-spin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="Pineapple-Sorbet_2025-01-03.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋😋😋🍍🍍

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450g_ Pineapple in juice [Del Monte] • Can = 565g
  - _100g_ [Cottage Cheese 4% \[REWE Bio\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cottage-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Brandy 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _10g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5

**Dry**

  - _20g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / CMC / Tara / XG / Inulin] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _20g_ [Xylitol](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7

**Fill to MAX**

  - _105ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 76.1 kcal; fat 0.6g; carbs 15.2g; sugar 9.6g; protein 2.0g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 274.0 kcal; fat 2.0g; carbs 54.7g; sugar 34.6g; protein 7.3g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 548.1 kcal; fat 4.0g; carbs 109.3g; sugar 69.2g; protein 14.5g; salt 1.1g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.52
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 10.60% • LOW-FAT
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 16.0g • 2.2%
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 14.3g erythritol, 1.43g Tylose powder (CMC, E466), 
0.5g tara gum (E417), 0.15g xanthan (E415),
14.3g inulin, 0.5g salt.

Commit message:

modernize, and add Batida option

recipes/Pineapple Sorbet (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
tags:
- Dairy
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Low-Fat
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Sorbet
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Pineapple Sorbet (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="pineapple_sherbet-ice-cream-logo.png" />

Pineapple in its own juice with dairy, soy or coconut milk to make it more creamy.

If you like to put it into Piña Colada territory, use 75ml of Batida de Côco (16 vol%) in place of the brandy and VG.

> 🌿 For the vegan option, replace the cottage cheese with 100ml coconut milk (adds 20kcal),
> or else 5g of almond butter and 150ml of either soy or almond milk.

Processed on “Sorbet”, with a scrape-down and re-spin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="Pineapple-Sorbet_2025-01-03.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋😋😋🍍🍍

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Wet**

  - _450g_ Pineapple in juice [Del Monte] • Can = 565g
  - _100g_ [Cottage Cheese 4% \[REWE Bio\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cottage-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Jamaica Rum 43 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _10g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml

**Dry**

  - _20g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _20g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7

**Fill to MAX**

  - _105ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Optional**

  - _75ml_ Batida de Côco 16 vol% [Mangaroca] • swap in for VG and brandy [179kcal, 12g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Add "wet" ingredients to empty Creami tub.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 80.9 kcal; fat 0.8g; carbs 16.5g; sugar 9.6g; protein 2.5g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 291.3 kcal; fat 2.8g; carbs 59.2g; sugar 34.6g; protein 8.8g; salt 0.6g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 582.5 kcal; fat 5.7g; carbs 118.4g; sugar 69.2g; protein 17.7g; salt 1.2g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 32.05
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 12.14% • LOW-FAT
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 16.0g • 2.2%
- **Net carbs:** 75.3g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 15.1g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 25.1g
- **20g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 9.2g Erythritol (E968) • 9.2g Inulin • 0.92g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.32g Guar gum (E412) • 0.32g Salt • 0.09g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
