recipes/Ultimate FroYo (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
canonical_url: https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/U/Ultimate%20FroYo%20(Deluxe)/
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
excluded_tags:
- Fruit
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Ultimate FroYo (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-Ultimate_FroYo.png" />

A balanced, creamy frozen yogurt that brings together the smoothness of real yogurt with a purposeful mix of stabilizers and mild sweetness.

This version keeps things light on sugar, rich in texture, and easy to blend with your preferred milk base or protein choice.
Perfect on its own or as a versatile base for any topping or swirl.

Spin on “FroYo”, scrape down, and run the mix-in cycle.

> <img width=220 alt="After 1st Spin" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _100ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* any other preferred milk (~2% fat)
  - _45g_ [Monk Fruit / Erythritol Sweetener \[Rheinnatur\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 88g Erythritol; 7.8g fiber
  - _30g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • click the link for UK / US equivalents
  - _20ml_ Agave syrup [REWE Bio] • POD ≈160; GI=11
  - _15g_ [Banana Powder (green plantain) \[Govinda\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#green-banana-powder-plantain){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* cornstarch; about 7% fiber (resistant starch)
  - _3g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* lecithin

**Wet**

  - _400ml_ Yogurt mild 4% [REWE Bio] • 500g container
  - _5ml_ Vanilla Extract (w/ alcohol) [Native Vanilla]

**Dry**

  - _15g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _15g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia
  - _1.5g_ [Carboxymethyl Cellulose (CMC / E466) \[GoodBake\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _1g_ [Guar gum (E412)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#guar-gum-e412){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _0.33g_ [Xanthan gum (E415, XG)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xanthan-gum-xg-e415){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1tsp ≈ 2.8g
  - _1g_ Salt

**Fill to MAX**

  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. In a small saucepan, mix all ‘prep’ ingredients and heat to 90°C on medium, while whisking.
 1. Add the "wet" ingredients and the milk preparation to an empty Creami tub.
 1. Add the prepared dry ingredients, and blend QUICKLY using an immersion blender on full speed.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. For better results, let the base age in the fridge (covered, lid on), for a few hours or over night. This helps flavor development and gum hydration, especially with unheated bases.
 1. Freeze for 24h with lid on, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 97.8 kcal; fat 3.8g; carbs 11.0g; sugar 6.3g; protein 5.1g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 332.5 kcal; fat 12.8g; carbs 37.2g; sugar 21.3g; protein 17.5g; salt 1.1g
- **Nutritional values total:** 652g; 637.5 kcal; fat 24.6g; carbs 71.4g; sugar 40.8g; protein 33.5g; salt 2.0g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.52
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.03% • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 61.5g • 9.4%
- **Net carbs:** 56.5g • *∝ 5 servings@130g:* 11.3g • *∝ 3 servings@217g:* 18.8g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 35.5%

Commit message:

use 'Adjust Sweetness' for final step

recipes/Ultimate FroYo (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
canonical_url: https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/U/Ultimate%20FroYo%20(Deluxe)/
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
excluded_tags:
- Fruit
- Vanilla
remove:
- ' (to the MAX line)'
replace:
- Fill to MAX=>Adjust Sweetness
tags:
- Dairy
- Draft
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Hi-Protein
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
---
# Ultimate FroYo (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="logo-Ultimate_FroYo.png" />

A balanced, creamy frozen yogurt that brings together the smoothness of real yogurt with a purposeful mix of stabilizers and mild sweetness.

This version keeps things light on sugar, rich in texture, and easy to blend with your preferred milk base or protein choice.
Perfect on its own or as a versatile base for any topping or swirl.

Spin on “FroYo”, scrape down, and run the mix-in cycle.

> <img width=220 alt="After 1st Spin" src="_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="After Mix-in" src="_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=220 alt="Scooped" src="_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _100ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* any other preferred milk (~2% fat)
  - _45g_ [Monk Fruit / Erythritol Sweetener \[Rheinnatur\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 88g Erythritol; 7.8g fiber
  - _30g_ [Cream Cheese 23% \[Exquisa\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#cream-cheese){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • click the link for UK / US equivalents
  - _20ml_ Agave syrup [REWE Bio] • POD ≈160; GI=11
  - _15g_ [Banana Powder (green plantain) \[Govinda\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#green-banana-powder-plantain){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* cornstarch; about 7% fiber (resistant starch)
  - _3g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • *alternative:* lecithin

**Wet**

  - _400ml_ Yogurt mild 4% [REWE Bio] • 500g container
  - _5ml_ Vanilla Extract (w/ alcohol) [Native Vanilla]

**Dry**

  - _15g_ [Inulin \[Vit4ever\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#inulin){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 8%; GI ~= 0
  - _15g_ [Whey + Casein protein (grass-fed) \[Vilgain\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#whey-protein){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • with stevia
  - _1.5g_ [Carboxymethyl Cellulose (CMC / E466) \[GoodBake\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _1g_ [Guar gum (E412)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#guar-gum-e412){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _0.33g_ [Xanthan gum (E415, XG)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xanthan-gum-xg-e415){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1tsp ≈ 2.8g
  - _1g_ Salt

**Adjust Sweetness**

  - _≈3 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

# DIRECTIONS

 1. In a small saucepan, mix all ‘prep’ ingredients and heat to 90°C on medium, while whisking.
 1. Add the "wet" ingredients and the milk preparation to an empty Creami tub.
 1. Add the prepared dry ingredients, and blend QUICKLY using an immersion blender on full speed.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients and stir with a spoon.
 1. For better results, let the base age in the fridge (covered, lid on), for a few hours or over night. This helps flavor development and gum hydration, especially with unheated bases.
 1. Freeze for 24h with lid on, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO

- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 97.8 kcal; fat 3.8g; carbs 11.0g; sugar 6.3g; protein 5.1g; salt 0.3g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 340g; 332.5 kcal; fat 12.8g; carbs 37.2g; sugar 21.3g; protein 17.5g; salt 1.1g
- **Nutritional values total:** 652g; 637.5 kcal; fat 24.6g; carbs 71.4g; sugar 40.8g; protein 33.5g; salt 2.0g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 30.52
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 21.03% • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 61.5g • 9.4%
- **Net carbs:** 56.5g • *∝ 5 servings@130g:* 11.3g • *∝ 3 servings@217g:* 18.8g • *energy ratio (low <20%):* 35.5%
