recipes/Almond Buttermilk (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
- prepared dry ingredients
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Almond Buttermilk (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="logo" src="logo.png" />

Processed on *Lite Ice Cream*, with scrape-down and a respin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_2025-05-06_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />

After 2 hours of freezing for firmer consistency — still on the soft side, but this will firm up further overnight.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_2025-05-06_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋😋😋😋😋

> <img width=180 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
>
> *Final version from Sat 2025-06-07 (after lite ice cream & mix-in, and scooped).*

> <img width=360 alt="Almond Buttermilk with Toppings" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_4.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Served with a topping of black sesame in a creamy pomegranate sauce.*

Added 2g GMS (emulsifier) and dissolved that, the SMP and the almond butter in heated soy milk. That improved texture a lot, and it needed only one Sorbet spin, no respins.

> <img width=180 alt="Added GMS" src="ABBM_2025-07-12_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Added GMS" src="ABBM_2025-07-12_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Added GMS" src="ABBM_2025-07-12_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Served with molasses and almond slivers, directly after processing.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _200ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _40g_ [Almond butter (creamy) \[Seba Garden\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#almond-milk-butter){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Skim milk powder 1:10 (SMP) \[Vita2You\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#skim-milk-powder-smp){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Wet**

  - _300ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _30g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _30g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7

**Fill to MAX**

  - _78ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _≈10 drops_ Flavor drops Cookies&Cream (stevia) [Nick’s] • to taste

**Mix-ins**

  - _25g_ Dark chocolate 70% [Moser-Roth/Aldi] • add chopped or shaved as a mix-in [145kcal, 7g sugar]
  - _10g_ Almond slivers [naturix24] • add as a topping or mix-in [59kcal, 0.4g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Microwave the soy milk and almond butter to 70°C.
 1. Mix SMP and GMS and blend it into the hot milk.
 1. Add the rest of the ‘wet’ ingredients.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 95.1 kcal; fat 3.6g; carbs 14.2g; sugar 3.6g; protein 4.6g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 342.5 kcal; fat 13.1g; carbs 51.0g; sugar 12.9g; protein 16.5g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 685.1 kcal; fat 26.3g; carbs 102.0g; sugar 25.7g; protein 33.0g; salt 1.4g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.05
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 19.25% • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 46.2g • 6.4%
- **Net carbs:** 37.3g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.5g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 12.4g
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 13.8g Erythritol (E968) • 13.8g Inulin • 1.4g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.48g Guar gum (E412) • 0.48g Salt • 0.14g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).

Commit message:

add general description, and topping options

recipes/Almond Buttermilk (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- ingredients to empty Creami tub
- prepared dry ingredients
tags:
- Dairy
- Emulsifier
- Erythritol
- Low-Sugar
- Polysaccharide Gum
- Scoopable
- Stevia
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Xylitol
---
# Almond Buttermilk (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="logo" src="logo.png" />

Ice cream based on almond butter as the main flavor component, adding buttermilk and unsweetened soy milk (to keep sugar low).
An emulsifier is used to properly integrate the nut butter.

Processed on *Lite Ice Cream*, with scrape-down and a respin.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_2025-05-06_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />

After 2 hours of freezing for firmer consistency — still on the soft side, but this will firm up further overnight.

> <img width=360 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_2025-05-06_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋😋😋😋😋

> <img width=180 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Spun Ice Cream" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
>
> *Final version from Sat 2025-06-07 (after lite ice cream & mix-in, and scooped).*

> <img width=360 alt="Almond Buttermilk with Toppings" src="almond-buttermilk_lite-mixin_2025-06-07_4.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Served with a topping of black sesame in a creamy pomegranate sauce.*

Added 2g GMS (emulsifier) and dissolved that, the SMP and the almond butter in heated soy milk. That improved texture a lot, and it needed only one Sorbet spin, no respins.

> <img width=180 alt="Added GMS" src="ABBM_2025-07-12_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Added GMS" src="ABBM_2025-07-12_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=180 alt="Added GMS" src="ABBM_2025-07-12_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> 
> *Served with molasses and almond slivers, directly after processing.*

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _200ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _40g_ [Almond butter (creamy) \[Seba Garden\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#almond-milk-butter){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Skim milk powder 1:10 (SMP) \[Vita2You\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#skim-milk-powder-smp){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _2g_ [Glycerol Monostearate (E471) \[Bulk\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#glycerol-monostearate-gms-e471){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Wet**

  - _300ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Brandy or Vodka 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>

**Dry**

  - _30g_ ICSv2 [Erythritol / Inulin / CMC / Guar / XG / Salt] • [http﹕//bit.ly/4frc4Vj](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/I/Ice%20Cream%20Stabilizer%20(ICS)/)
  - _30g_ [Xylitol (E967)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 100%; GI = 7

**Fill to MAX**

  - _78ml_ Buttermilk 1% [REWE]
  - _≈10 drops_ Flavor drops Cookies&Cream (stevia) [Nick’s] • to taste

**Mix-ins**

  - _25g_ Dark chocolate 70% [Moser-Roth/Aldi] • add chopped or shaved as a mix-in [145kcal, 7g sugar]
  - _10g_ Almond slivers [naturix24] • add as a topping or mix-in [59kcal, 0.4g sugar]

**Topping Options**

  - _5ml_ Molasses [Grafschafter Goldsaft] • add as a topping [15kcal, 3.3g sugar]

# DIRECTIONS

 1. Microwave the soy milk and almond butter to 70°C.
 1. Mix SMP and GMS and blend it into the hot milk.
 1. Add the rest of the ‘wet’ ingredients.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Let blender run until thickeners are properly hydrated, up to 1-2 min. Or blend again after waiting that time.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.
 1. Process with MIX-IN after adding mix-ins evenly. For that, add partial amounts into a hole going down to the bottom, and fold the ice cream over, building pockets of mix-ins.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 95.1 kcal; fat 3.6g; carbs 14.2g; sugar 3.6g; protein 4.6g; salt 0.2g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 342.5 kcal; fat 13.1g; carbs 51.0g; sugar 12.9g; protein 16.5g; salt 0.7g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 685.1 kcal; fat 26.3g; carbs 102.0g; sugar 25.7g; protein 33.0g; salt 1.4g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 31.05
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 19.25% • Low-Sugar
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 46.2g • 6.4%
- **Net carbs:** 37.3g • *∝ 5 servings@144g:* 7.5g • *∝ 3 servings@240g:* 12.4g
- **30g Ice Cream Stabilizer (ICSv2) is:** 13.8g Erythritol (E968) • 13.8g Inulin • 1.4g Tylose powder (E466, Tylo, CMC) • 0.48g Guar gum (E412) • 0.48g Salt • 0.14g Xanthan gum (E415, XG).
