recipes/Banafaba (Deluxe)/README.md, before:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- to empty Creami tub
- are properly hydrated
- Let blender run
excluded_tags:
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy-Free
- Draft
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Gum-Free
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Sucralose
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Banafaba (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/banana-ice-cream-logo.png" />

> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**<br />Recipe is using only soy milk and protein.

Since there are no extra thickeners, the base is relatively fluid.
It also leads to a rather watery melt, 1g of CMC or another stabilizer will prevent that.

Process on *Sorbet*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that. Then a scrape-down with compaction, and a respin.

> <img width=240 alt="After Sorbet" src="Banafaba_2025-06-13_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=240 alt="After Respin" src="Banafaba_2025-06-13_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=240 alt="Flat + Scooped" src="Banafaba_2025-06-13_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🍌 (untested)

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _150ml_ Aquafaba (chickpea liquid)
  - _100g_ Banana (peeled) • 1 mid-size banana, eat any surplus 😋
  - _20g_ Hemp hearts (organic, shelled) [alnatura]

**Wet**

  - _300ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Fruit Brandy 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _5 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

**Dry**

  - _30g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _30g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored
  - _10g_ [Xylitol](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7
  - _2g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]
  - _1g_ [Tylose powder (E466 / CMC) \[GoodBake\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • optional, for chewier texture and slower melting

**Fill to MAX**

  - _52ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. In an empty tub, blend the hemp hearts, banana, and squafaba to a smooth puree.
 1. Then add all the other ‘wet’ ingredients.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Before freezing, let it rest in the fridge for at least 2 hours.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 84.9 kcal; fat 2.3g; carbs 11.9g; sugar 2.4g; protein 6.3g; salt 0.1g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 305.7 kcal; fat 8.4g; carbs 43.0g; sugar 8.7g; protein 22.5g; salt 0.5g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 611.4 kcal; fat 16.9g; carbs 85.9g; sugar 17.4g; protein 45.1g; salt 1.0g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 29.62
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 29.48% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 27.9g • 3.9%

Commit message:

consistency directly after the respin

recipes/Banafaba (Deluxe)/README.md, after:

---
description: Recipe for the Ninja Creami Deluxe [24oz]
excluded_steps:
- to empty Creami tub
- are properly hydrated
- Let blender run
excluded_tags:
- Tylo Powder (CMC)
- Vanilla
tags:
- Dairy-Free
- Erythritol
- Fruit
- Gum-Free
- Hi-Protein
- Low-Fat
- Low-Sugar
- Sucralose
- Vegan
- Xylitol
---
# Banafaba (Deluxe)
<img style="float: right; margin-left: 1.5em;" width=240 alt="Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhermann/ice-creamery/refs/heads/main/assets/banana-ice-cream-logo.png" />

> 🌿 **Vegan & Dairy-free**<br />Recipe is using only soy milk and protein.

Since there are no extra thickeners, the base is relatively fluid.
It also leads to a rather watery melt, 1g of CMC or another stabilizer will prevent that.

Process on *Sorbet*, [hold it shortly under running water](https://jhermann.github.io/ice-creamery/info/tips%2Btricks/#handling-of-icy-sides-bottom)
*after* that. Then a scrape-down with compaction, and a respin.

> <img width=240 alt="After Sorbet" src="Banafaba_2025-06-13_1.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=240 alt="After Respin" src="Banafaba_2025-06-13_2.jpg" class="zoomable" />
> <img width=240 alt="Flat + Scooped" src="Banafaba_2025-06-13_3.jpg" class="zoomable" />

Rating: 😋🍌 
Directly after the respin, you get a “soft scoopable” consistency, smooth and crystal-free.

# INGREDIENTS

ℹ️ Brand names are in square brackets `[...]`.

**Prep**

  - _150ml_ Aquafaba (chickpea liquid)
  - _100g_ Banana (peeled) • 1 mid-size banana, eat any surplus 😋
  - _20g_ Hemp hearts (organic, shelled) [alnatura]

**Wet**

  - _300ml_ [Soy milk 1.6% (sugar-free) \[Berief\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-milk){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _15g_ [Glycerin (E422, VG) \[hd-line\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#vegetable-glycerin-glycerol-vg-e422){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 60%; GI = 5; Density = 1.26 g/ml
  - _10g_ [Fruit Brandy 40 vol%](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#alcohol-ethanol){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>
  - _5 drops_ Flavor drops Vanilla (sucralose) [IronMaxx] • to taste

**Dry**

  - _30g_ [Erythritol (E968)](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#erythritol-e968){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • POD = 75%
  - _30g_ [Soy protein isolate (nature) \[Powerstar\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#soy-protein-isolate){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • 1kg bag, unsweetened, unflavored
  - _10g_ [Xylitol](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#xylitol-e967){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • Sweetness = 100%; GI = 7
  - _2g_ Vanilla Bean Powder [InterVanilla]
  - _1g_ [Tylose powder (E466 / CMC) \[GoodBake\]](/ice-creamery/info/ingredients/#carboxymethyl-cellulose-cmc-e466){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> • optional, for chewier texture and slower melting

**Fill to MAX**

  - _52ml_ Water to MAX line

# DIRECTIONS

 1. In an empty tub, blend the hemp hearts, banana, and aquafaba to a smooth puree.
 1. Then add all the other ‘wet’ ingredients.
 1. Weigh and mix dry ingredients, easiest by adding to a jar with a secure lid and shaking vigorously.
 1. Pour into the tub and *QUICKLY* use an immersion blender on full speed to homogenize everything.
 1. Add remaining ingredients (to the MAX line) and stir with a spoon.
 1. Before freezing, let it rest in the fridge for at least 2 hours.
 1. Put on the lid, freeze for 24h, then spin as usual. Flatten any humps before that.
 1. Process with RE-SPIN mode when not creamy enough after the first spin.

# NUTRITIONAL & OTHER INFO
- **Nutritional values per 100g/ml:** 100g; 84.9 kcal; fat 2.3g; carbs 11.9g; sugar 2.4g; protein 6.3g; salt 0.1g
- **Nutritional values per ½ Deluxe Tub:** 360g; 305.7 kcal; fat 8.4g; carbs 43.0g; sugar 8.7g; protein 22.5g; salt 0.5g
- **Nutritional values total:** 720g; 611.4 kcal; fat 16.9g; carbs 85.9g; sugar 17.4g; protein 45.1g; salt 1.0g
- **FPDF / [PAC](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#potere-anti-congelante-pac){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup> (target 20..30):** 29.62
- **Protein / Energy Ratio (ok=12%; hi=20%):** 29.48% • LOW-FAT • Low-Sugar • Hi-Protein
- **Milk Solids Non-Fat ([MSNF](/ice-creamery/info/glossary/#milk-solids-not-fat-msnf){target="_blank"}<sup>↗</sup>, 7-11%):** 27.9g • 3.9%
